doc/start/quick-ceph-deploy.rst, before:

=============================
 Storage Cluster Quick Start
=============================

If you haven't completed your `Preflight Checklist`_, do that first. This
**Quick Start** sets up a :term:`Ceph Storage Cluster` using ``ceph-deploy``
on your admin node. Create a three Ceph Node cluster so you can
explore Ceph functionality.

.. include:: quick-common.rst

As a first exercise, create a Ceph Storage Cluster with one Ceph Monitor and three
Ceph OSD Daemons. Once the cluster reaches a ``active + clean`` state, expand it
by adding a fourth Ceph OSD Daemon, and two more Ceph Monitors.
For best results, create a directory on your admin node for maintaining the
configuration files and keys that ``ceph-deploy`` generates for your cluster. ::

	mkdir my-cluster
	cd my-cluster

The ``ceph-deploy`` utility will output files to the current directory. Ensure you
are in this directory when executing ``ceph-deploy``.

.. important:: Do not call ``ceph-deploy`` with ``sudo`` or run it as ``root``
   if you are logged in as a different user, because it will not issue ``sudo``
   commands needed on the remote host.


Starting over
=============

If at any point you run into trouble and you want to start over, execute
the following to purge the Ceph packages, and erase all its data and configuration::

	ceph-deploy purge {ceph-node} [{ceph-node}]
	ceph-deploy purgedata {ceph-node} [{ceph-node}]
	ceph-deploy forgetkeys
	rm ceph.*

If you execute ``purge``, you must re-install Ceph.  The last ``rm``
command removes any files that were written out by ceph-deploy locally
during a previous installation.


Create a Cluster
================

On your admin node from the directory you created for holding your
configuration details, perform the following steps using ``ceph-deploy``.

#. Create the cluster. ::

     ceph-deploy new {initial-monitor-node(s)}

   Specify node(s) as hostname, fqdn or hostname:fqdn. For example::

     ceph-deploy new node1

   Check the output of ``ceph-deploy`` with ``ls`` and ``cat`` in the
   current directory. You should see a Ceph configuration file
   (``ceph.conf``), a monitor secret keyring (``ceph.mon.keyring``),
   and a log file for the new cluster.  See `ceph-deploy new -h`_ for
   additional details.

   Note for users of Ubuntu 18.04: Python 2 is a prerequisite of Ceph.
   Install the ``python-minimal`` package on Ubuntu 18.04 to provide
   Python 2::

     [Ubuntu 18.04] $ sudo apt install python-minimal

#. Add the ``public network`` setting under the ``[global]`` section of your
   Ceph configuration file. See the `Network Configuration Reference`_ for
   details. ::

     public network = {ip-address}/{bits}

   For example,::

     public network = 10.1.2.0/24

   to use IPs in the 10.1.2.0/24 (or 10.1.2.0/255.255.255.0) network.

#. If you are deploying in an IPv6 environment, add the following to
   ``ceph.conf`` in the local directory::

     echo ms bind ipv6 = true >> ceph.conf

#. Install Ceph packages.::

     ceph-deploy install {ceph-node} [...]

   For example::

     ceph-deploy install node1 node2 node3

   The ``ceph-deploy`` utility will install Ceph on each node.

#. Deploy the initial monitor(s) and gather the keys::

     ceph-deploy mon create-initial

   Once you complete the process, your local directory should have the following
   keyrings:

   - ``ceph.client.admin.keyring``
   - ``ceph.bootstrap-mgr.keyring``
   - ``ceph.bootstrap-osd.keyring``
   - ``ceph.bootstrap-mds.keyring``
   - ``ceph.bootstrap-rgw.keyring``
   - ``ceph.bootstrap-rbd.keyring``
   - ``ceph.bootstrap-rbd-mirror.keyring``

   .. note:: If this process fails with a message similar to "Unable to
      find /etc/ceph/ceph.client.admin.keyring", please ensure that the
      IP listed for the monitor node in ceph.conf is the Public IP, not
      the Private IP.

#. Use ``ceph-deploy`` to copy the configuration file and admin key to
   your admin node and your Ceph Nodes so that you can use the ``ceph``
   CLI without having to specify the monitor address and
   ``ceph.client.admin.keyring`` each time you execute a command. ::

	ceph-deploy admin {ceph-node(s)}

   For example::

	ceph-deploy admin node1 node2 node3

#. Deploy a manager daemon. (Required only for luminous+ builds)::

     ceph-deploy mgr create node1  *Required only for luminous+ builds, i.e >= 12.x builds*

#. Add three OSDs. For the purposes of these instructions, we assume you have an
   unused disk in each node called ``/dev/vdb``.  *Be sure that the device is not currently in use and does not contain any important data.* ::

     ceph-deploy osd create --data {device} {ceph-node}

   For example::

     ceph-deploy osd create --data /dev/vdb node1
     ceph-deploy osd create --data /dev/vdb node2
     ceph-deploy osd create --data /dev/vdb node3

   .. note:: If you are creating an OSD on an LVM volume, the argument to
      ``--data`` *must* be ``volume_group/lv_name``, rather than the path to
      the volume's block device.

#. Check your cluster's health. ::

     ssh node1 sudo ceph health

   Your cluster should report ``HEALTH_OK``.  You can view a more complete
   cluster status with::

     ssh node1 sudo ceph -s


Expanding Your Cluster
======================

Once you have a basic cluster up and running, the next step is to expand
cluster. Then add a Ceph Monitor and Ceph Manager to ``node2`` and ``node3``
to improve reliability and availability.

.. ditaa::
           /------------------\         /----------------\
           |    ceph-deploy   |         |     node1      |
           |    Admin Node    |         | cCCC           |
           |                  +-------->+                |
           |                  |         |   mon.node1    |
           |                  |         |     osd.0      |
           |                  |         |   mgr.node1    |
           \---------+--------/         \----------------/
                     |
                     |                  /----------------\
                     |                  |     node2      |
                     |                  | cCCC           |
                     +----------------->+                |
                     |                  |     osd.1      |
                     |                  |   mon.node2    |
                     |                  \----------------/
                     |
                     |                  /----------------\
                     |                  |     node3      |
                     |                  | cCCC           |
                     +----------------->+                |
                                        |     osd.2      |
                                        |   mon.node3    |
                                        \----------------/

Adding Monitors
---------------

A Ceph Storage Cluster requires at least one Ceph Monitor and Ceph
Manager to run. For high availability, Ceph Storage Clusters typically
run multiple Ceph Monitors so that the failure of a single Ceph
Monitor will not bring down the Ceph Storage Cluster. Ceph uses the
Paxos algorithm, which requires a majority of monitors (i.e., greater
than *N/2* where *N* is the number of monitors) to form a quorum.
Odd numbers of monitors tend to be better, although this is not required.

.. tip: If you did not define the ``public network`` option above then
   the new monitor will not know which IP address to bind to on the
   new hosts.  You can add this line to your ``ceph.conf`` by editing
   it now and then push it out to each node with
   ``ceph-deploy --overwrite-conf config push {ceph-nodes}``.

Add two Ceph Monitors to your cluster using the command::

  ceph-deploy mon add {ceph-node}

For example::

  ceph-deploy mon add node2
  ceph-deploy mon add node3

Once you have added your new Ceph Monitors, Ceph will begin synchronizing
the monitors and form a quorum. You can check the quorum status by executing
the following::

  ceph quorum_status --format json-pretty


.. tip:: When you run Ceph with multiple monitors, you SHOULD install and
         configure NTP on each monitor host. Ensure that the
         monitors are NTP peers.

Adding Managers
---------------

The Ceph Manager daemons operate in an active/standby pattern.  Deploying
additional manager daemons ensures that if one daemon or host fails, another
one can take over without interrupting service.

It is recommended to run a Ceph Manager daemon on each node that runs a Ceph
Monitor daemon.

To deploy additional manager daemons::

  ceph-deploy mgr create node2 node3

You should see the standby managers in the output from::

  ssh node1 sudo ceph -s


Add an RGW Instance
-------------------

To use the :term:`Ceph Object Gateway` component of Ceph, you must deploy an
instance of :term:`RGW`.  Execute the following to create an new instance of
RGW::

    ceph-deploy rgw create {gateway-node}

For example::

    ceph-deploy rgw create node1

By default, the :term:`RGW` instance will listen on port 7480. This can be
changed by editing ceph.conf on the node running the :term:`RGW` as follows:

.. code-block:: ini

    [client]
    rgw frontends = civetweb port=80

To use an IPv6 address, use:

.. code-block:: ini

    [client]
    rgw frontends = civetweb port=[::]:80



Storing/Retrieving Object Data
==============================

To store object data in the Ceph Storage Cluster, a Ceph client must:

#. Set an object name
#. Specify a `pool`_

The Ceph Client retrieves the latest cluster map and the CRUSH algorithm
calculates how to map the object to a `placement group`_, and then calculates
how to assign the placement group to a Ceph OSD Daemon dynamically. To find the
object location, all you need is the object name and the pool name. For
example::

  ceph osd map {poolname} {object-name}

.. topic:: Exercise: Locate an Object

   As an exercise, lets create an object. Specify an object name, a path to
   a test file containing some object data and a pool name using the
   ``rados put`` command on the command line. For example::

     echo {Test-data} > testfile.txt
     ceph osd pool create mytest {number-of-placement-groups}
     rados put {object-name} {file-path} --pool=mytest
     rados put test-object-1 testfile.txt --pool=mytest

   To verify that the Ceph Storage Cluster stored the object, execute
   the following::

     rados -p mytest ls

   Now, identify the object location::

     ceph osd map {pool-name} {object-name}
     ceph osd map mytest test-object-1

   Ceph should output the object's location. For example::

     osdmap e537 pool 'mytest' (1) object 'test-object-1' -> pg 1.d1743484 (1.4) -> up [1,0] acting [1,0]

   To remove the test object, simply delete it using the ``rados rm``
   command.

   For example::

     rados rm test-object-1 --pool=mytest

   To delete the ``mytest`` pool::

     ceph osd pool rm mytest

   (For safety reasons you will need to supply additional arguments as
   prompted; deleting pools destroys data.)

As the cluster evolves, the object location may change dynamically. One benefit
of Ceph's dynamic rebalancing is that Ceph relieves you from having to perform
data migration or balancing manually.


.. _Preflight Checklist: ../quick-start-preflight
.. _Ceph Deploy: ../../rados/deployment
.. _ceph-deploy install -h: ../../rados/deployment/ceph-deploy-install
.. _ceph-deploy new -h: ../../rados/deployment/ceph-deploy-new
.. _ceph-deploy osd: ../../rados/deployment/ceph-deploy-osd
.. _Running Ceph with Upstart: ../../rados/operations/operating#running-ceph-with-upstart
.. _Running Ceph with sysvinit: ../../rados/operations/operating#running-ceph-with-sysvinit
.. _CRUSH Map: ../../rados/operations/crush-map
.. _pool: ../../rados/operations/pools
.. _placement group: ../../rados/operations/placement-groups
.. _Monitoring a Cluster: ../../rados/operations/monitoring
.. _Monitoring OSDs and PGs: ../../rados/operations/monitoring-osd-pg
.. _Network Configuration Reference: ../../rados/configuration/network-config-ref
.. _User Management: ../../rados/operations/user-management

Commit message:

Amendment based on feedback
Added instructions to enable PG autoscaling so that the cluster will automatically set the number of PGs for the test pool, and the user does not need to understand or worry about setting a sensible number of PGs

Signed-off-by: Andrew Howe <rubyredxanadu@gmail.com>

doc/start/quick-ceph-deploy.rst, after:

=============================
 Storage Cluster Quick Start
=============================

If you haven't completed your `Preflight Checklist`_, do that first. This
**Quick Start** sets up a :term:`Ceph Storage Cluster` using ``ceph-deploy``
on your admin node. Create a three Ceph Node cluster so you can
explore Ceph functionality.

.. include:: quick-common.rst

As a first exercise, create a Ceph Storage Cluster with one Ceph Monitor and three
Ceph OSD Daemons. Once the cluster reaches a ``active + clean`` state, expand it
by adding a fourth Ceph OSD Daemon, and two more Ceph Monitors.
For best results, create a directory on your admin node for maintaining the
configuration files and keys that ``ceph-deploy`` generates for your cluster. ::

	mkdir my-cluster
	cd my-cluster

The ``ceph-deploy`` utility will output files to the current directory. Ensure you
are in this directory when executing ``ceph-deploy``.

.. important:: Do not call ``ceph-deploy`` with ``sudo`` or run it as ``root``
   if you are logged in as a different user, because it will not issue ``sudo``
   commands needed on the remote host.


Starting over
=============

If at any point you run into trouble and you want to start over, execute
the following to purge the Ceph packages, and erase all its data and configuration::

	ceph-deploy purge {ceph-node} [{ceph-node}]
	ceph-deploy purgedata {ceph-node} [{ceph-node}]
	ceph-deploy forgetkeys
	rm ceph.*

If you execute ``purge``, you must re-install Ceph.  The last ``rm``
command removes any files that were written out by ceph-deploy locally
during a previous installation.


Create a Cluster
================

On your admin node from the directory you created for holding your
configuration details, perform the following steps using ``ceph-deploy``.

#. Create the cluster. ::

     ceph-deploy new {initial-monitor-node(s)}

   Specify node(s) as hostname, fqdn or hostname:fqdn. For example::

     ceph-deploy new node1

   Check the output of ``ceph-deploy`` with ``ls`` and ``cat`` in the
   current directory. You should see a Ceph configuration file
   (``ceph.conf``), a monitor secret keyring (``ceph.mon.keyring``),
   and a log file for the new cluster.  See `ceph-deploy new -h`_ for
   additional details.

   Note for users of Ubuntu 18.04: Python 2 is a prerequisite of Ceph.
   Install the ``python-minimal`` package on Ubuntu 18.04 to provide
   Python 2::

     [Ubuntu 18.04] $ sudo apt install python-minimal

#. Add the ``public network`` setting under the ``[global]`` section of your
   Ceph configuration file. See the `Network Configuration Reference`_ for
   details. ::

     public network = {ip-address}/{bits}

   For example,::

     public network = 10.1.2.0/24

   to use IPs in the 10.1.2.0/24 (or 10.1.2.0/255.255.255.0) network.

#. If you are deploying in an IPv6 environment, add the following to
   ``ceph.conf`` in the local directory::

     echo ms bind ipv6 = true >> ceph.conf

#. Install Ceph packages.::

     ceph-deploy install {ceph-node} [...]

   For example::

     ceph-deploy install node1 node2 node3

   The ``ceph-deploy`` utility will install Ceph on each node.

#. Deploy the initial monitor(s) and gather the keys::

     ceph-deploy mon create-initial

   Once you complete the process, your local directory should have the following
   keyrings:

   - ``ceph.client.admin.keyring``
   - ``ceph.bootstrap-mgr.keyring``
   - ``ceph.bootstrap-osd.keyring``
   - ``ceph.bootstrap-mds.keyring``
   - ``ceph.bootstrap-rgw.keyring``
   - ``ceph.bootstrap-rbd.keyring``
   - ``ceph.bootstrap-rbd-mirror.keyring``

   .. note:: If this process fails with a message similar to "Unable to
      find /etc/ceph/ceph.client.admin.keyring", please ensure that the
      IP listed for the monitor node in ceph.conf is the Public IP, not
      the Private IP.

#. Use ``ceph-deploy`` to copy the configuration file and admin key to
   your admin node and your Ceph Nodes so that you can use the ``ceph``
   CLI without having to specify the monitor address and
   ``ceph.client.admin.keyring`` each time you execute a command. ::

	ceph-deploy admin {ceph-node(s)}

   For example::

	ceph-deploy admin node1 node2 node3

#. Deploy a manager daemon. (Required only for luminous+ builds)::

     ceph-deploy mgr create node1  *Required only for luminous+ builds, i.e >= 12.x builds*

#. Add three OSDs. For the purposes of these instructions, we assume you have an
   unused disk in each node called ``/dev/vdb``.  *Be sure that the device is not currently in use and does not contain any important data.* ::

     ceph-deploy osd create --data {device} {ceph-node}

   For example::

     ceph-deploy osd create --data /dev/vdb node1
     ceph-deploy osd create --data /dev/vdb node2
     ceph-deploy osd create --data /dev/vdb node3

   .. note:: If you are creating an OSD on an LVM volume, the argument to
      ``--data`` *must* be ``volume_group/lv_name``, rather than the path to
      the volume's block device.

#. Check your cluster's health. ::

     ssh node1 sudo ceph health

   Your cluster should report ``HEALTH_OK``.  You can view a more complete
   cluster status with::

     ssh node1 sudo ceph -s


Expanding Your Cluster
======================

Once you have a basic cluster up and running, the next step is to expand
cluster. Then add a Ceph Monitor and Ceph Manager to ``node2`` and ``node3``
to improve reliability and availability.

.. ditaa::
           /------------------\         /----------------\
           |    ceph-deploy   |         |     node1      |
           |    Admin Node    |         | cCCC           |
           |                  +-------->+                |
           |                  |         |   mon.node1    |
           |                  |         |     osd.0      |
           |                  |         |   mgr.node1    |
           \---------+--------/         \----------------/
                     |
                     |                  /----------------\
                     |                  |     node2      |
                     |                  | cCCC           |
                     +----------------->+                |
                     |                  |     osd.1      |
                     |                  |   mon.node2    |
                     |                  \----------------/
                     |
                     |                  /----------------\
                     |                  |     node3      |
                     |                  | cCCC           |
                     +----------------->+                |
                                        |     osd.2      |
                                        |   mon.node3    |
                                        \----------------/

Adding Monitors
---------------

A Ceph Storage Cluster requires at least one Ceph Monitor and Ceph
Manager to run. For high availability, Ceph Storage Clusters typically
run multiple Ceph Monitors so that the failure of a single Ceph
Monitor will not bring down the Ceph Storage Cluster. Ceph uses the
Paxos algorithm, which requires a majority of monitors (i.e., greater
than *N/2* where *N* is the number of monitors) to form a quorum.
Odd numbers of monitors tend to be better, although this is not required.

.. tip: If you did not define the ``public network`` option above then
   the new monitor will not know which IP address to bind to on the
   new hosts.  You can add this line to your ``ceph.conf`` by editing
   it now and then push it out to each node with
   ``ceph-deploy --overwrite-conf config push {ceph-nodes}``.

Add two Ceph Monitors to your cluster using the command::

  ceph-deploy mon add {ceph-node}

For example::

  ceph-deploy mon add node2
  ceph-deploy mon add node3

Once you have added your new Ceph Monitors, Ceph will begin synchronizing
the monitors and form a quorum. You can check the quorum status by executing
the following::

  ceph quorum_status --format json-pretty


.. tip:: When you run Ceph with multiple monitors, you SHOULD install and
         configure NTP on each monitor host. Ensure that the
         monitors are NTP peers.

Adding Managers
---------------

The Ceph Manager daemons operate in an active/standby pattern.  Deploying
additional manager daemons ensures that if one daemon or host fails, another
one can take over without interrupting service.

It is recommended to run a Ceph Manager daemon on each node that runs a Ceph
Monitor daemon.

To deploy additional manager daemons::

  ceph-deploy mgr create node2 node3

You should see the standby managers in the output from::

  ssh node1 sudo ceph -s


Add an RGW Instance
-------------------

To use the :term:`Ceph Object Gateway` component of Ceph, you must deploy an
instance of :term:`RGW`.  Execute the following to create an new instance of
RGW::

    ceph-deploy rgw create {gateway-node}

For example::

    ceph-deploy rgw create node1

By default, the :term:`RGW` instance will listen on port 7480. This can be
changed by editing ceph.conf on the node running the :term:`RGW` as follows:

.. code-block:: ini

    [client]
    rgw frontends = civetweb port=80

To use an IPv6 address, use:

.. code-block:: ini

    [client]
    rgw frontends = civetweb port=[::]:80



Storing/Retrieving Object Data
==============================

To store object data in the Ceph Storage Cluster, a Ceph client must:

#. Set an object name
#. Specify a `pool`_

The Ceph Client retrieves the latest cluster map and the CRUSH algorithm
calculates how to map the object to a `placement group`_, and then calculates
how to assign the placement group to a Ceph OSD Daemon dynamically. To find the
object location, all you need is the object name and the pool name. For
example::

  ceph osd map {poolname} {object-name}

.. topic:: Exercise: Locate an Object

   As an exercise, let's create an object. Specify an object name, a path to
   a test file containing some object data and a pool name using the
   ``rados put`` command on the command line. Let's also enable placement group
   autoscaling so that the cluster will automatically set an appropriate number
   of placement groups for the pool. For example::

     echo {Test-data} > testfile.txt
     ceph mgr module enable pg_autoscaler
     ceph osd pool create mytest 0
     ceph osd pool set mytest pg_autoscale_mode on
     rados put {object-name} {file-path} --pool=mytest
     rados put test-object-1 testfile.txt --pool=mytest

   To verify that the Ceph Storage Cluster stored the object, execute
   the following::

     rados -p mytest ls

   Now, identify the object location::

     ceph osd map {pool-name} {object-name}
     ceph osd map mytest test-object-1

   Ceph should output the object's location. For example::

     osdmap e537 pool 'mytest' (1) object 'test-object-1' -> pg 1.d1743484 (1.4) -> up [1,0] acting [1,0]

   To remove the test object, simply delete it using the ``rados rm``
   command.

   For example::

     rados rm test-object-1 --pool=mytest

   To delete the ``mytest`` pool::

     ceph osd pool rm mytest

   (For safety reasons you will need to supply additional arguments as
   prompted; deleting pools destroys data.)

As the cluster evolves, the object location may change dynamically. One benefit
of Ceph's dynamic rebalancing is that Ceph relieves you from having to perform
data migration or balancing manually.


.. _Preflight Checklist: ../quick-start-preflight
.. _Ceph Deploy: ../../rados/deployment
.. _ceph-deploy install -h: ../../rados/deployment/ceph-deploy-install
.. _ceph-deploy new -h: ../../rados/deployment/ceph-deploy-new
.. _ceph-deploy osd: ../../rados/deployment/ceph-deploy-osd
.. _Running Ceph with Upstart: ../../rados/operations/operating#running-ceph-with-upstart
.. _Running Ceph with sysvinit: ../../rados/operations/operating#running-ceph-with-sysvinit
.. _CRUSH Map: ../../rados/operations/crush-map
.. _pool: ../../rados/operations/pools
.. _placement group: ../../rados/operations/placement-groups
.. _Monitoring a Cluster: ../../rados/operations/monitoring
.. _Monitoring OSDs and PGs: ../../rados/operations/monitoring-osd-pg
.. _Network Configuration Reference: ../../rados/configuration/network-config-ref
.. _User Management: ../../rados/operations/user-management
