doc/cephfs/snapshots.rst, before:

================
CephFS Snapshots
================

CephFS snapshots create an immutable view of the file system at the point
in time they are taken. CephFS support snapshots which is managed in a 
special hidden subdirectory named ``.snap`` .Snapshots are created using
``mkdir`` inside this directory.

Snapshots can be exposed with a different name by changing the following client configurations.

- ``snapdirname`` which is a mount option for kernel clients
- ``client_snapdir`` which is a mount option for ceph-fuse.

Snapshot Creation
==================

CephFS snapshot feature is enabled by default on new file systems. To enable 
it on existing file systems, use the command below.

.. code-block:: bash
    
    $ ceph fs set <fs_name> allow_new_snaps true

When snapshots are enabled, all directories in CephFS will have a special ``.snap``
directory. (You may configure a different name with the client snapdir setting if 
you wish.)
To create a CephFS snapshot, create a subdirectory under ``.snap`` with a name of 
your choice. 
For example, to create a snapshot on directory ``/file1/``, invoke ``mkdir /file1/.snap/snapshot-name``

.. code-block:: bash

    $ touch file1
    $ cd .snap
    $ mkdir my_snapshot

Using snapshot to recover data
===============================

Snapshots can also be used to recover some deleted files.

- ``create a file1 and create snapshot snap1``

.. code-block:: bash

    $ touch /mnt/cephfs/file1
    $ cd .snap
    $ mkdir snap1

- ``create a file2 and create snapshot snap2``

.. code-block:: bash

    $ touch /mnt/cephfs/file2
    $ cd .snap
    $ mkdir snap2

- ``delete file1 and create a new snapshot snap3``

.. code-block:: bash

    $ rm /mnt/cephfs/file1
    $ cd .snap
    $ mkdir snap3

- ``recover file1 using snapshot snap2 using cp command``

.. code-block:: bash

    $ cd .snap
    $ cd snap2
    $ cp file1 /mnt/cephfs/

Snapshot Deletion
==================

Snapshots are deleted by invoking ``rmdir`` on the ``.snap`` directory they are
rooted in. (Attempts to delete a directory which roots the snapshots will fail; 
you must delete the snapshots first.)

.. code-block:: bash

    $ cd .snap
    $ rmdir my_snapshot

Commit message:

doc/cephfs: edit grammar in snapshots.rst
This commit improves the grammar in doc/cephfs/snapshots.rst. The PR
associated with this commit follows from
https://github.com/ceph/ceph/pull/61240, the PR raised by Neeraj Pratap
Singh to introduce information about snapshots into the CephFS
documentation.

See also https://tracker.ceph.com/issues/68974.

Signed-off-by: Zac Dover <zac.dover@proton.me>

doc/cephfs/snapshots.rst, after:

================
CephFS Snapshots
================

CephFS snapshots create an immutable view of the file system at the point in
time they are taken. CephFS snapshots are managed in a special hidden
subdirectory named ``.snap``. Snapshots are created using ``mkdir`` inside the
``.snap`` directory.

Snapshots can be exposed with different names by changing the following client
configurations:

- ``snapdirname`` which is a mount option for kernel clients
- ``client_snapdir`` which is a mount option for ceph-fuse.

Snapshot Creation
==================

The CephFS snapshot feature is enabled by default on new file systems. To
enable the CephFS snapshot feature on existing file systems, use the command
below.

.. code-block:: bash
    
    $ ceph fs set <fs_name> allow_new_snaps true

When snapshots are enabled, all directories in CephFS will have a special
``.snap`` directory. (You may configure a different name with the client's
``snapdir`` setting if you wish.) To create a CephFS snapshot, create a
subdirectory under ``.snap`` with a name of your choice.  For example, to
create a snapshot on directory ``/file1/``, run the command ``mkdir
/file1/.snap/snapshot-name``:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ touch file1
    $ cd .snap
    $ mkdir my_snapshot

Using Snapshots to Recover Data
===============================

Snapshots can also be used to recover deleted files:

- ``create a file1 and create snapshot snap1``

.. code-block:: bash

    $ touch /mnt/cephfs/file1
    $ cd .snap
    $ mkdir snap1

- ``create a file2 and create snapshot snap2``

.. code-block:: bash

    $ touch /mnt/cephfs/file2
    $ cd .snap
    $ mkdir snap2

- ``delete file1 and create a new snapshot snap3``

.. code-block:: bash

    $ rm /mnt/cephfs/file1
    $ cd .snap
    $ mkdir snap3

- ``recover file1 using snapshot snap2 using cp command``

.. code-block:: bash

    $ cd .snap
    $ cd snap2
    $ cp file1 /mnt/cephfs/

Snapshot Deletion
==================

Snapshots are deleted by running ``rmdir`` on the ``.snap`` directory that they
are rooted in. (Attempts to delete a directory that roots the snapshots will
fail. You must delete the snapshots first.)

.. code-block:: bash

    $ cd .snap
    $ rmdir my_snapshot
