.TH CAUTHTOOL 8
.SH NAME
cauthtool \- ceph keyring manipulation tool
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cauthtool
\fIkeyringfile\fP
[ \fB\-l\fR | \fB\-\-list\fR ]
[ \fB\-c\fR | \fB\-\-create-keyring\fR ]
[ \fB\-p\fR | \fB\-\-print\fR ]
[ \fB\-n\fR | \fB\-\-name\fR \fIentityname\fP ]
[ \fB\-\-gen-key\fR ]
[ \fB\-a\fR | \fB\-\-add-key \fIbase64_key\fP ]
[ \fB\-\-caps\fR \fIcapfils\fP ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B cauthtool
is a utility to create, view, and modify a Ceph keyring file.  A keyring
file stores one or more Ceph authentication keys and possibly an 
associated capability specification.  Each key is associated with an
entity name, of the form \fI{client,mon,mds,osd}.name\fP.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-l\fP, \fB\-\-list\fP
will list all keys and capabilities present in the keyring.
.TP
\fB\-p\fP, \fB\-\-print\fP
will print an encoded key for the specified \fIentityname\fP.  This is suitable for the mount -o secret= argument.
.TP
\fB\-c\fP, \fB\-\-create-keyring\fP
will create a new keyring, overwriting any existing \fIkeyringfile\fP.
.TP
\fB\-\-gen\-key\fP
will generate a new secret key for the specified \fIentityname\fP:
.TP
\fB\-\-add\-key\fP
will add an encoded key to the keyring.
.TP
\fB\-\-cap\fI subsystem capability \fP
will set the capability for given subsystem.
.TP
\fB\-\-caps\fI capsfile \fP
will set all of capabilities associated with a given key, for all subsystems.

.SH CAPABILITIES

The \fIsubsystem\fP is the name of a Ceph subsystem: mon, mds, or osd.
.PP
The \fIcapability\fP is a string describing what the given user is
allowed to do.  This takes the form of a comma separated list of
allow, deny clauses with a permission specifier containing one or more
of \fIrwx\fP for read, write, and execute permission.  The "allow *" grants
full superuser permissions for the given subsystem.
.PP
For example,

.IP
osd = "allow rwx [pool=foo[,bar]]|[uid=baz[,bay]]"  # can read, write, and execute objects
.IP
mds = "allow"      # can access mds server
.IP
mon = "allow rwx"  # can modify cluster state (i.e., is a server daemon)
.PP
A librados user restricted to a single pool might look like
.IP
osd = "allow rw pool foo"
.PP
A client mounting the file system with minimal permissions would need caps like
.IP
mds = "allow"
.IP
osd = "allow rw pool=data"
.IP
mon = "allow r"
.PP

.SH CAPS FILE FORMAT

The caps file format consists of zero or more key/value pairs, one per line.  The key and value are separated by an '=', and the value must be quoted (with ' or ") if it contains any whitespace.  The key is the name of the Ceph
subsystem (osd, mds, mon), and the value is the capability string (see above). 

.SH EXAMPLE
To create a new keyring containing a key for \fIclient.foo\fP:
.IP
cauthtool -c -n client.foo --gen-key keyring.bin
.PP
To associate some capabilities with the key (namely, the ability to mount a Ceph filesystem):
.IP
cauthtool -n client.foo --cap mds 'allow' --cap osd 'allow rw pool=data' --cap mon 'allow r' keyring.bin
.PP
To display the contents of the keyring:
.IP
cauthtool -l keyring.bin
.PP
When mount a Ceph file system, you can grab the appropriately encoded secret key with
.IP
mount -t ceph serverhost:/ mountpoint -o name=foo,secret=`cauthtool -p -n client.foo keyring.bin`
.PP
.SH AVAILABILITY
.B cauthtool
is part of the Ceph distributed file system.  Please refer to the Ceph wiki at
http://ceph.newdream.net/wiki for more information.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ceph (8)
