.TH CCONF 8
.SH NAME
cconf \- ceph conf file tool
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cconf
\fB\-c \fIconffile\fR \fB\--list-all-sections
.br
.B cconf
\fB\-c \fIconffile\fR \fB\-L
.br
.B cconf
\fB\-c \fIconffile\fR \fB\-l \fIprefix\fR
.br
.B cconf
\fIkey\fR \fB\-s \fIsection1\fR ...
.br
.B cconf
[\fB-s\fR \fIsection\fR] \fB--lookup\fR \fIkey\fR
.br
.B cconf
[\fB-s\fR \fIsection\fR] \fIkey\fR
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B cconf
is a utility for getting information about a ceph configuration file. As with
most Ceph programs, you can specify which Ceph configuration file to use with
the \fB-c\fR flag.
.PP
.SH ACTIONS
\fBcconf\fR will perform one of the following actions:
.PP
\fB--list-all-sections\fR or \fB-L\fR prints out a list of all the section
names in the configuration file.
.PP
\fB--list-sections\fR or \fB-l\fR prints out a list of all the sections that
begin with a given prefix. For example, \fB--list-sections \fImon\fR\fR would list all
sections beginning with \fImon\fR.
.PP
\fB--lookup\fR will search the configuration for a given value.
By default, the sections that are searched are determined by the Ceph name that we are
using. The Ceph name defaults to client.admin. It can be specified with \fB--name\fR.
.PP
For example, if we specify \fB--name\fR \fIosd.0\fR, the following sections will be
searched: \fI[osd.0], [osd], [global]\fR
.PP
You can specify additional sections to search with \fB--section\fR or \fB-s\fR.
These additional sections will be searched \fIbefore\fR the sections that would
normally be searched. As always, the first matching entry we find will be returned.
.PP
Note: \fB--lookup\fR is the default action. If no other actions are given on the
command line, we will default to doing a lookup.
.PP
.SH EXAMPLES
To find out what value osd 0 will use for the "osd data" option:
.IP
cconf -c foo.conf  --name osd.0 --lookup "osd data"
.PP
To find out what value will mds a use for the "log file" option:
.IP
cconf -c foo.conf  --name mds.a "log file"
.PP
To list all sections that begin with \fIosd\fP:
.IP
cconf -c foo.conf -l osd
.PP
To list all sections:
.IP
cconf -c foo.conf -L
.PP
.SH AVAILABILITY
.B cconf
is part of the Ceph distributed file system.  Please refer to the Ceph wiki at
http://ceph.newdream.net/wiki for more information.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ceph (8),
.BR mkcephfs (8)
