.TH CEPH 8
.SH NAME
ceph \- ceph file system control utility
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ceph
[ \fB\-m\fI monaddr\fR ]
[ \fB\-w\fP | \fIcommand ...\fR ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B ceph
is a control utility for communicating with the monitor cluster of a running
Ceph distributed file system.
.PP
There are three basic modes of operation.
.SH INTERACTIVE MODE
To start in interactive
mode, no arguments are necessary.  Control-d or 'quit' will exit.
.SH WATCH MODE
To watch cluster state changes in real time,
starting in \fB\-w\fP (watch) mode will print updates to stdout as they occur.  For example,
to keep an eye on cluster state,
.IP
ceph -C ceph.conf -w
.SH COMMAND LINE MODE
Finally, to send a single instruction to the monitor cluster (and wait for a 
response), the command can be specified on the command line.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-i \fIinfile\fP
will specify an input file to be passed along as a payload with the \fIcommand\fP to the
monitor cluster.  This is only used for specific monitor commands.
.TP
\fB\-o \fIoutfile\fP
will write any payload returned by the monitor cluster with its reply to \fIoutfile\fP.
Only specific monitor commands (e.g. \fIosd getmap\fP) return a payload.
.TP
\fB\-c\fI ceph.conf\fR, \fB\-\-conf=\fIceph.conf\fR
Use \fIceph.conf\fP configuration file instead of the default \fI/etc/ceph/ceph.conf\fP
to determine monitor addresses during startup.
.TP
\fB\-m\fI monaddress[:port]\fR
Connect to specified monitor (instead of looking through \fIceph.conf\fR).
.SH EXAMPLES
To grab a copy of the current OSD map:
.IP
ceph -m 1.2.3.4:6789 osd getmap -o osdmap
.PP
To get a dump of placement group (PG) state:
.IP
ceph pg dump -o pg.txt
.SH MONITOR COMMANDS
A more complete summary of commands understood by the monitor cluster can be found
in the wiki, at
.IP
http://ceph.newdream.net/wiki/Monitor_commands
.SH AVAILABILITY
.B ceph
is part of the Ceph distributed file system.  Please refer to the Ceph wiki at
http://ceph.newdream.net/wiki for more information.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ceph (8),
.BR mkcephfs (8)
