.TH CMDS 8
.SH NAME
cmds \- ceph metadata server daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cmds
\fB\- \fIname\fR
[ \fB\-\-rank\fI rank\fR ]
[ \fB\-\-shadow\fI rank\fR ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B cmds
is the metadata server daemon for the Ceph distributed file system.
One or more instances of \fBcmds\fP collectively manage the file system
namespace, coordinating access to the shared OSD cluster.
.PP
Each 
.B cmds
daemon instance should have a unique \fIname\fP.  The name is used
to identify daemon instances in the \fIceph.conf\fP.
.PP
Once the daemon has started, the monitor cluster will normally assign it
a logical rank, or put it in a standby pool to take over for another daemon
that crashes.  If a specific rank may be optionally specified on the
command line, the daemon will be assigned that rank, or will be put in a
separate standby queue specifically for that rank.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-\-mds\fI rank\fP
Start up as (or standby for) the given MDS rank.  If not specified, a rank will
be assigned by the monitor cluster.
\fB\-\-shadow\fI rank\fP
Shadow a the given MDS rank.  The given MDS log will be replayed, checking for
recovery errors.
.TP
\fB\-D\fP
Debug mode: do not daemonize after startup (run in foreground) and send log output
to stdout.
.TP
\fB\-f\fP
do not daemonize after startup (run in foreground), but log to the usual location.
Useful when run via 
.BR crun (8).
.TP
\fB\-c\fI ceph.conf\fR, \fB\-\-conf=\fIceph.conf\fR
Use \fIceph.conf\fP configuration file instead of the default \fI/etc/ceph/ceph.conf\fP
to determine monitor addresses during startup.
.TP
\fB\-m\fI monaddress[:port]\fR
Connect to specified monitor (instead of looking through \fIceph.conf\fR).
.SH AVAILABILITY
.B cmon
is part of the Ceph distributed file system.  Please refer to the Ceph wiki at
http://ceph.newdream.net/wiki for more information.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ceph (8),
.BR cmon (8),
.BR cosd (8)
