.TH COSD 8
.SH NAME
cosd \- ceph object storage daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cosd
\fB\-i \fIosdnum\fR
[ \fB\-\-osd\-data \fIdatapath\fR ]
[ \fB\-\-osd\-journal \fIjournal\fR ]
[ \fB\-\-mkfs\fR ]
[ \fB\-\-mkjournal\fR ]
[ \fB\-\-mkkey\fR ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B cosd
is the object storage daemon for the Ceph distributed file system.
It is responsible for storing objects on a local file system and 
providing access to them over the network.
.PP
The \fIdatapath\fP argument should be a directory on a btrfs file
system where the object data resides.  The \fIjournal\fP is optional,
and is only useful performance-wise when it resides on a different
disk than \fIdatapath\fP with low latency (ideally, an NVRAM device).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-f\fP, \fB\-\-foreground\fP
Foreground: do not daemonize after startup (run in foreground).
Do not generate a pid file. Useful when run via crun (8).
.TP
\fB\-d\fP
Debug mode: like -f, but also send all log output to stderr.
.TP
\fB\-\-osd\-data \fIosddata\fP
Use object store at \fIosddata\fP.
.TP
\fB\-\-osd\-journal \fIjournal\fP
Journal updates to \fIjournal\fP.
.TP
\fB\-\-mkfs\fP
Create an empty object repository.  Normally invoked by
.BR mkcephfs
(8).  This also initializes the jouranl (if one is defined).
.TP
\fB\-\-mkkey\fP
Generate a new secret key.  This is normally used in combination with \fB\-\-mkfs\fR 
as it is more convenient than generating a key by hand with \fIcauthtool\fR.
.TP
\fB\-\-mkjournal\fP
Create a new journal file to match an existing object repository.  This is useful if the journal
device or file is wiped out due to a disk or file system failure.
.TP
\fB\-c\fI ceph.conf\fR, \fB\-\-conf=\fIceph.conf\fR
Use \fIceph.conf\fP configuration file instead of the default \fI/etc/ceph/ceph.conf\fP
for runtime configuration options.
.TP
\fB\-m\fI monaddress[:port]\fR
Connect to specified monitor (instead of looking through \fIceph.conf\fR).
.SH AVAILABILITY
.B cosd
is part of the Ceph distributed file system.  Please refer to the Ceph wiki at
http://ceph.newdream.net/wiki for more information.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ceph (8),
.BR cmds (8),
.BR cmon (8),
.BR cauthtool (8)
