.TH CSYN 8
.SH NAME
csyn \- ceph synthetic workload generator
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B csyn
[ \fB\-m monaddr:port\fP ]
\fB--syn\fI command ...\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B csyn
is a simple synthetic workload generator for the Ceph distributed file system.
It uses the userspace client library to generate simple workloads against
a currently running file system.  The file system need not be mounted via
.BR cfuse (8)
or the kernel client.
.PP
One or more \fB--syn\fI command\fR arguments specify the particular workload,
as documented below.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-d\fP
Detach from console and daemonize after startup.
.TP
\fB\-c\fI ceph.conf\fR, \fB\-\-conf=\fIceph.conf\fR
Use \fIceph.conf\fP configuration file instead of the default \fI/etc/ceph/ceph.conf\fP
for runtime configuration options.
.TP
\fB\-C\fI cluster.conf\fR, \fB\-\-cluster-conf=\fIcluster.conf\fR
Use \fIcluster.conf\fP cluster configuration file instead of the default \fI/etc/ceph/cluster.conf\fP
to determine monitor addresses during startup.
.TP
\fB\-m\fI monaddress[:port]\fR
Connect to specified monitor (instead of looking through \fIcluster.conf\fR).
.TP
\fB\-\-num_client\fI num\fR
Run \fInum\fR different clients, each in a separate thread.
.TP
\fB\-\-syn\fI workloadspec\fR
Run the given workload.  May be specified as many times as needed.  Workloads will
normally run sequentially.
.SH WORKLOADS
Each workload should be preceeded by \fB--syn\fP on the command line.  This is not a
complete list.
.TP
\fBmknap\fI path snapname\fP
Create a snapshot called \fIsnapname\fP on \fIpath\fP.
.TP
\fBrmsnap\fI path snapname\fP
Delete snapshot called \fIsnapname\fP on \fIpath\fP.
.TP
\fBrmfile\fI path\fP
Delete/unlink \fIpath\fP.
.TP
\fBwritefile\fI sizeinmb blocksize\fP
Create a file, named after our client id, that is \fIsizeinmb\fP MB by writing \fIblocksize\fP chunks.
.TP
\fBreadfile\fI sizeinmb blocksize\fP
Read file, named after our client id, that is \fIsizeinmb\fP MB by writing \fIblocksize\fP chunks.
.TP
\fBrw\fI sizeinmb blocksize\fP
Write file, then read it back, as above.
.TP
\fBmakedirs\fI numsubdirs numfiles depth\fP
Create a hierarchy of directories that is \fIdepth\fP levels deep.  Give each
directory \fInumsubdirs\fP subdirectories and \fInumfiles\fP files.
.TP
\fBwalk\fP
Recursively walk the file system (like \fBfind\fP).

.SH AVAILABILITY
.B csyn
is part of the Ceph distributed file system.  Please refer to the Ceph wiki at
http://ceph.newdream.net/wiki for more information.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ceph (8),
.BR cfuse (8)
