.TH MONMAPTOOL 8
.SH NAME
monmaptool \- ceph monitor cluster map manipulation tool
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B monmaptool
\fImapfilename\fP
[ \fB\-\-clobber\fR ]
[ \fB\-\-print\fR ]
[ \fB\-\-create\fR ]
[ \fB\-\-add \fIip:port\fP ... ]
[ \fB\-\-rm \fIip:port\fP ... ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B monmaptool
is a utility to create, view, and modify a monitor cluster map for the
Ceph distributed file system.  The monitor map specifies the only fixed
addresses in the Ceph distributed system.  All other daemons bind to
arbitrary addresses and register themselves with the monitors.
.PP
When creating a map with \fB\-\-create\fP, a new monitor map with a
new, random UUID will be created.  It should be followed by one or
more monitor addresses.
.PP
The default Ceph monitor port is \fB6789\fP.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-\-print\fP
will print a plaintext dump of the map, after any modifications are made.
.TP
\fB\-\-clobber\fP
will allow
.B monmaptool
to overwrite \fImapfilename\fP if changes are made.
.TP
\fB\-\-create\fP
will create a new monitor map with a new UUID (and with it, a new, empty Ceph file system).
.TP
\fB\-\-add\fI name ip:port\fP
will add a monitor with the specified \fIip:port\fP to the map.
.TP
\fB\-\-rm\fI name\fP
will remove the monitor with the specified \fIip:port\fP from the map.
.SH EXAMPLE
To create a new map with three monitors (for a fresh Ceph file system):
.IP
monmaptool --create --add mon.a 192.168.0.10:6789 --add mon.b 192.168.0.11:6789 --add mon.c 192.168.0.12:6789 --clobber monmap
.PP
To display the contents of the map:
.IP
monmaptool --print onmap
.PP
To replace one monitor:
.IP
monmaptool --rm mon.a --add mon.a 192.168.0.9:6789 --clobber monmap
.SH AVAILABILITY
.B monmaptool
is part of the Ceph distributed file system.  Please refer to the Ceph wiki at
http://ceph.newdream.net/wiki for more information.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ceph (8),
.BR crushtool (8),
.BR mkcephfs (8)
