.TH MOUNT.CEPH 8
.SH NAME
mount.ceph \- mount a ceph file system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mount.ceph
\fImonaddr1\fR[,\fImonaddr2\fR,...]:/[\fIsubdir\fR]
\fIdir\fR
[ \fB\-o \fIoptions\fR ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B mount.ceph
is a simple helper for mounting the Ceph file system on a Linux host.
The only real purpose it serves is to resolve monitor hostname(s) into
IP addresses; the Linux kernel client component does most of the real
work.  In fact, it is possible to mount a Ceph file system without
.B mount.ceph
by specifying monitor address(es) by IP:
.IP
mount -t ceph 1.2.3.4:/ mountpoint
.PP
Each monitor address \fImonaddr\fR takes the form
\fIhost\fR[:\fIport\fP].  If the port is not specified, the Ceph
default of \fI6789\fP is assumed.  
.PP
Multiple monitor addresses can be separated by commas.  Only one
responsible monitor is needed to successfully mount; the client will
learn about all monitors from any responsive monitor.  However, it is
a good idea to specify more than one in case one happens to be down at
the time of mount.
.PP
A subdirectory \fIsubdir\fP may be specified if a subset of the file system is to be
mounted.

.SH OPTIONS

wsize
.IP
int, max write size.  Default: none (writeback uses smaller of wsize and stripe unit)
.PP

rsize
.IP
int (bytes), max readahead, multiple of 1024, Default: 524288 (512*1024)
.PP

osdtimeout
.IP
int (seconds), Default: 60
.PP

osdkeepalivetimeout
.IP
int, Default: 5
.PP

mount_timeout
.IP
int (seconds), Default: 60
.PP

osd_idle_ttl
.IP
int (seconds), Default: 60
.PP

caps_wanted_delay_min
.IP
int, cap release delay, Default: 5
.PP

caps_wanted_delay_max
.IP
int, cap release delay, Default: 60
.PP

cap_release_safety
.IP
int, Default: calculated
.PP

readdir_max_entries
.IP
int, Default: 1024
.PP

readdir_max_bytes
.IP
int, Default: 524288 (512*1024)
.PP

write_congestion_kb
.IP
int (kb), max writeback in flight. scale with available memory. Default: calculated from available memory
.PP

snapdirname
.IP
string, set the name of the hidden snapdir. Default: .snap
.PP

name
.IP
string, used with authx, Default: guest
.PP

secret
.IP
string, used with authx 
.PP

ip
.IP
my ip
.PP

noshare
.IP
create a new client instance, instead of sharing an existing instance of a client mounting the same cluster
.PP

dirstat
.IP
funky `cat dirname` for stats, Default: off
.PP

nodirstat
.IP
no funky `cat dirname` for stats
.PP

rbytes
.IP
Report the recursive size of the directory contents for st_size on directories.  Default: on
.PP

norbytes
.IP
Do not report the recursive size of the directory contents for st_size on directories.
.PP

nocrc
.IP
no data crc on writes
.PP

noasyncreaddir
.IP
no dcache readdir
.PP


.SH EXAMPLES
Mount the full file system:
.IP
mount.ceph monhost:/ /mnt/foo
.PP
If there are multiple monitors:
.IP
mount.ceph monhost1,monhost2,monhost3:/ /mnt/foo
.PP
If 
.BR cmon (8)
is running on a non-standard port:
.IP
mount.ceph monhost1:7000,monhost2:7000,monhost3:7000:/ /mnt/foo
.PP
To mount only part of the namespace:
.IP
mount.ceph monhost1:/some/small/thing /mnt/thing
.PP
Assuming
.BR mount.ceph (8)
is installed properly, it should be automatically invoked by
.BR mount (8)
like so:
.IP
mount -t ceph monhost:/ /mnt/foo
.SH AVAILABILITY
.B mount.ceph
is part of the Ceph distributed file system.  Please refer to the Ceph wiki at
http://ceph.newdream.net/wiki for more information.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR cfuse (8),
.BR ceph (8)
