.TH RADOSGW_ADMIN 8
.SH NAME
radosgw_admin \- rados REST gateway user administration utility
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B radosgw_admin <cmd> [options..]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B radosgw_admin
is a RADOS gateway user administration utility. It allows creating and modifying users.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
\fBcmd\fR can be one of the following options:
.IP
 user create    Create a new user
 user modify    Modify a user
 user info      Display information of a user
 user rm        Remove a user
 bucket list    List all buckets
 bucket unlink  Remove a bucket
 policy         Display bucket/object policy
 log show       Show the log of a bucket (with a specified date)
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-c\fI ceph.conf\fR, \fB\-\-conf=\fIceph.conf\fR
Use \fIceph.conf\fP configuration file instead of the default \fI/etc/ceph/ceph.conf\fP
to determine monitor addresses during startup.
.TP
\fB\-m\fI monaddress[:port]\fR
Connect to specified monitor (instead of looking through \fIceph.conf\fR).
.TP
\fB\-\-uid=\fIuid\fR
The S3 user/access key.
.TP
\fB\-\-secret=\fIsecret\fR
The S3 secret.
.TP
\fB\-\-display\-name=\fIname\fR
Configure the display name of the user.
.TP
\fB\-\-email=\fIemail\fR
The e-mail address of the user
.TP
\fB\-\-bucket=\fIbucket\fR
Specify the bucket name.
.TP
\fB\-\-object=\fIobject\fR
Specify the object name.
.TP
\fB\-\-date=\fIyyyy-mm-dd\fR
The date need for some commands
.TP
\fB\-\-os\-user=\fIgroup:name\fR
The OpenStack user (only needed for use with OpenStack)
.TP
\fB\-\-os\-secret=\fIkey\fR
The OpenStack key
.TP
\fB\-\-auth\-uid=\fIauid\fR
The librados auid
.SH EXAMPLES
Generate a new user
.IP
 $ radosgw_admin user gen --display-name="johnny rotten" --email=johnny@rotten.com
 User ID: CHBQFRTG26I8DGJDGQLW
 Secret Key: QR6cI/31N+J0VKVgHSpEGVSfEEsmf6PyXG040KCB
 Display Name: johnny rotten
.PP
Remove a user
.IP
 $ radosgw_admin user rm --uid=CHBQFRTG26I8DGJDGQLW
.PP
Remove a bucket
.IP
 $ radosgw_admin bucket unlink --bucket=foo
.PP
Thow the logs of a bucket from April 1st 2011
.IP
 $ radosgw_admin log show --bucket=foo --date=2011=04-01
.PP
.SH AVAILABILITY
.B radosgw_admin
is part of the Ceph distributed file system.  Please refer to the Ceph wiki at
http://ceph.newdream.net/wiki for more information.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ceph (8)
