.TH RADOS 8
.SH NAME
rados \- rados object storage utility
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rados
[ \fB\-m\fI monaddr\fR ]
[ \fB\-p\fP | \fB\-\-pool\fI pool\fR ]
[ \fB\-s\fP | \fB\-\-snap\fI snap\fR ]
[ \fB\-i\fI infile\fR ]
[ \fB\-o\fI outfile\fR ]
\fIcommand ...\fR

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B rados
is a utility for interacting with a Ceph object storage cluster (RADOS), part of the
Ceph distributed file system.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-p\fI pool\fR, \fB\-\-pool \fIpool\fR
Interact with the given \fIpool\fP.  Required by most commands.
.TP
\fB\-s\fI snap\fR, \fB\-\-snap \fIsnap\fR
Read from the given pool snapshot.  Valid for all pool-specific read operations.
.TP
\fB\-i \fIinfile\fP
will specify an input file to be passed along as a payload with the \fIcommand\fP to the
monitor cluster.  This is only used for specific monitor commands.
.TP
\fB\-o \fIoutfile\fP
will write any payload returned by the monitor cluster with its reply to \fIoutfile\fP.
Only specific monitor commands (e.g. \fIosd getmap\fP) return a payload.
.TP
\fB\-c\fI ceph.conf\fR, \fB\-\-conf=\fIceph.conf\fR
Use \fIceph.conf\fP configuration file instead of the default \fI/etc/ceph/ceph.conf\fP
to determine monitor addresses during startup.
.TP
\fB\-m\fI monaddress[:port]\fR
Connect to specified monitor (instead of looking through \fIceph.conf\fR).
.SH GLOBAL COMMANDS
.TP
\fBlspools\fI
List object pools
.TP
\fBdf\fI
Show utilization statistics, including disk usage (bytes) and object counts, over the entire system
and broken down by pool.
.SH POOL SPECIFIC COMMANDS
.TP
\fBget \fIname\fP \fIoutfile\fP
Read object \fIname\fP from the cluster and write it to \fIoutfile\fP.
.TP
\fBput \fIname\fP \fIinfile\fP
Write object \fIname\fP to the cluster with contents from \fIinfile\fP.
.TP
\fBrm \fIname\fP
Remove object \fIname\fP.
.TP
\fBls \fIoutfile\fP
List objects in given pool and write to \fIoutfile\fP.
.TP
\fBlssnap\fP
List snapshots for given pool.
.TP
\fBmksnap \fIfoo\fP
Create pool snapshot named \fIfoo\fP.
.TP
\fBrmsnap \fIfoo\fP
Remove pool snapshot names \fIfoo\fP.
.TP
\fBbench \fIseconds\fP \fImode\fP [ \fB-b \fIobjsize\fP ] [ \fB-t threads\fP ]
Benchmark for \fIseconds\fP.  The \fImode\fP can be write or read.  The default object size is 4 KB, and the
default number of simulated threads (parallel writes) is 16.
.SH EXAMPLES
To view cluster utilization:
.IP
rados df
.PP
To get a list object in pool \fIfoo\FP sent to stdout:
.IP
rados -p foo ls -
.PP
To write an object:
.IP
rados -p foo put myobject blah.txt
.PP
To create a snapshot:
.IP
rados -p foo mksnap mysnap
.PP
To delete the object:
.IP
rados -p foo rm myobject
.PP
To read a previously snapshotted version of an object:
.IP
rados -p foo -s mysnap get myobject blah.txt.old
.PP
.SH AVAILABILITY
.B rados
is part of the Ceph distributed file system.  Please refer to the Ceph wiki at
http://ceph.newdream.net/wiki for more information.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ceph (8)
