.TH RBDTOOL 8
.SH NAME
rbdtool \- manage rados block device (RBD) images
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rbdtool
[ \fB\-m\fI monaddr\fR ]
[ \fB\-p\fP | \fB\-\-pool\fI pool\fR ]
[ \fB\-\-create\fI imgname\fR [ \fB\-s\fI sizeinmb\fR ] ]
[ \fB\-\-delete\fI imgname\fR ]
[ \fB\-\-list\fR ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B rbdtool
is a utility for manipulating rados block device (RBD) images, used by the Linux
'rbd' block device driver and the 'rbd' storage driver for Qemu/KVM.  RBD images are
simple block devices that are striped over objects and stored in a RADOS object store.
The size of the objects the image is striped over must be a power of two.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-p\fI pool\fR, \fB\-\-pool \fIpool\fR
Interact with the given \fIpool\fP.  Required by most commands.
.TP
\fB\-\-list\fP
will list all rbd images listed in the \fIrbd_directory\fR object.
.TP
\fB\-\-create \fIimgname\fP
will create a new rbd image.  You must also specify the size via \fB\-\-size\fR.
.TP
\fB\-\-size \fIsize_in_mb\fP
specifies the size (in megabytes) of the new rbd image.
.TP
\fB\-\-order \fIbits\fP
specifies the object size expressed as a number of bits, such that the object size is 1 << \fIorder\fR. The default is 22 (4 MB).
.TP
\fB\-c\fI ceph.conf\fR, \fB\-\-conf=\fIceph.conf\fR
Use \fIceph.conf\fP configuration file instead of the default \fI/etc/ceph/ceph.conf\fP
to determine monitor addresses during startup.
.TP
\fB\-m\fI monaddress[:port]\fR
Connect to specified monitor (instead of looking through \fIceph.conf\fR).
.SH EXAMPLES
To create a new rbd image that is 100 GB:
.IP
rbdtool -p mypool --create myimage --size 100000
.PP
To use a non-default object size (8 MB):
.IP
rbdtool -p mypool --create myimage --size 100000 --order 23
.PP
To delete an rbd image (be careful!):
.IP
rbdtool -p mypool --delete myimage
.PP
.SH AVAILABILITY
.B rbdtool
is part of the Ceph distributed file system.  Please refer to the Ceph wiki at
http://ceph.newdream.net/wiki for more information.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ceph (8), rados (8)
src/
