=======================================
 mkcephfs -- create a ceph file system
=======================================

.. program:: mkcephfs

Synopsis
========

| **mkcephfs** -c *ceph.conf* [ --mkfs ] [ -a, --all-hosts [ -k
  */path/to/admin.keyring* ] ]


Description
===========

**mkcephfs** is used to create an empty Ceph file system, possibly
spanning multiple hosts. The ceph.conf file describes the composition
of the entire Ceph cluster, including which hosts are participating,
which daemons run where, and which paths are used to store file system
data or metadata.

The mkcephfs tool can be used in two ways. If -a is used, it will use
ssh and scp to connect to remote hosts on your behalf and do the setup
of the entire cluster. This is the easiest solution, but can also be
inconvenient (if you don't have ssh to connect without prompting for
passwords) or slow (if you have a large cluster).

Alternatively, you can run each setup phase manually. First, you need
to prepare a monmap that will be shared by each node::

        # prepare
        master# mkdir /tmp/foo
        master# mkcephfs -c /etc/ceph/ceph.conf \
          --prepare-monmap -d /tmp/foo

Share the ``/tmp/foo`` directory with other nodes in whatever way is
convenient for you. On each OSD and MDS node::

        osdnode# mkcephfs --init-local-daemons osd -d /tmp/foo
        mdsnode# mkcephfs --init-local-daemons mds -d /tmp/foo

Collect the contents of the /tmp/foo directories back onto a single
node, and then::

        master# mkcephfs --prepare-mon -d /tmp/foo

Finally, distribute ``/tmp/foo`` to all monitor nodes and, on each of
those nodes::

        monnode# mkcephfs --init-local-daemons mon -d /tmp/foo


Options
=======

.. option:: -a, --allhosts

   Performs the necessary initialization steps on all hosts in the
   cluster, executing commands via SSH.

.. option:: -c ceph.conf, --conf=ceph.conf

   Use the given conf file instead of the default ``/etc/ceph/ceph.conf``.

.. option:: -k /path/to/keyring

   When ``-a`` is used, we can specify a location to copy the
   client.admin keyring, which is used to administer the cluster. The
   default is ``/etc/ceph/keyring`` (or whatever is specified in the
   config file).

.. option:: --mkfs

   Create and mount the file systems specified in the ceph.conf for
   OSD data storage using mkfs.$type. The ``devs`` option in ceph.conf
   must specify the device(s) and the ``osd mkfs type`` option must
   specify the file system type (normally one of btrfs, xfs, or ext4).

.. option:: --no-copy-conf

   By default, mkcephfs with -a will copy the new configuration to
   /etc/ceph/ceph.conf on each node in the cluster.  This option
   disables that behavior.

Subcommands
===========

The sub-commands performed during cluster setup can be run individually with

.. option:: --prepare-monmap -d dir -c ceph.conf

   Create an initial monmap with a random fsid/uuid and store it and
   the ceph.conf in dir.

.. option:: --init-local-daemons type -d dir

   Initialize any daemons of type type on the local host using the
   monmap in dir.  For types osd and mds, the resulting authentication
   keys will be placed in dir.  For type mon, the initial data files
   generated by --prepare-mon (below) are expected in dir.

.. option:: --prepare-mon -d dir

   Prepare the initial monitor data based on the monmap, OSD, and MDS
   authentication keys collected in dir, and put the result in dir.


Availability
============

**mkcephfs** is part of the Ceph distributed file system. Please refer
to the Ceph documentation at http://ceph.com/docs for more
information.


See also
========

:doc:`ceph <ceph>`\(8),
:doc:`monmaptool <monmaptool>`\(8),
:doc:`osdmaptool <osdmaptool>`\(8),
:doc:`crushtool <crushtool>`\(8)
