doc/man/8/rgw-restore-bucket-index.rst, before:

:orphan:

==================================================================================
 rgw-restore-bucket-index -- try to restore a bucket's objects to its bucket index
==================================================================================

.. program:: rgw-restore-bucket-index

Synopsis
========

| **rgw-restore-bucket-index**

Description
===========

:program:`rgw-restore-bucket-index` is an *EXPERIMENTAL* RADOS gateway
user administration utility. It scans the data pool for objects that
belong to a given bucket and tries to add those objects back to the
bucket index. It's intended as a **last resort** after a
**catastrophic** loss of a bucket index. Please thorougly review the
*Warnings* listed below.

The utility works with regular (i.e., un-versioned) buckets, versioned
buckets, and buckets were versioning has been suspended.

Warnings
========

This utility is currently considered *EXPERIMENTAL*.

The results are unpredictable if the bucket is in
active use while this utility is running.

The results are unpredictable if only some bucket's objects are
missing from the bucket index. In such a case, consider using the
"object reindex" subcommand of `radosgw-admin` to restore object's to
the bucket index one-by-one.

For objects in versioned buckets, if the latest version is a delete
marker, it will be restored. If a delete marker has been written over
with a new version, then that delete marker will not be restored. This
should have minimal impact on results in that the it recovers the
latest version and previous versions are all accessible.

Command-Line Arguments
======================

.. option:: -b <bucket>

   Specify the bucket to be reindexed.

.. option:: -p <pool>

   Optional, specify the data pool containing head objects for the
   bucket. If omitted the utility will try to determine the data pool
   on its own.

.. option:: -r <realm-name>

   Optional, specify the realm if the restoration is not being applied
   to the default realm.

.. option:: -g <zonegroup-name>

   Optional, specify the zonegroup if the restoration is not being applied
   to the default zonegroup.

.. option:: -z <zone-name>

   Optional, specify the zone if the restoration is not being applied
   to the default zone.

.. option:: -l <rados-ls-output-file>

   Optional, specify a file containing the output of a rados listing
   of the data pool. Since listing the data pool can be an expensive
   and time-consuming operation, if trying to recover the indices for
   multiple buckets, it could be more efficient to re-use the same
   listing.

.. option:: -y

   Optional, proceed without further prompting. Without this option
   the utility will display some information and prompt the user as to
   whether to proceed. When provided, the utility will simply
   proceed. Please use caution when using this option.

Examples
========

Attempt to restore the index for a bucket named *summer-2023-photos*::

        $ rgw-restore-bucket-index -b summer-2023-photos

Availability
============

:program:`rgw-restore-bucket-index` is part of Ceph, a massively
scalable, open-source, distributed storage system.  Please refer to
the Ceph documentation at https://docs.ceph.com for more information.

See also
========

:doc:`radosgw-admin <radosgw-admin>`\(8)

Commit message:

rgw: make rgw-restore-bucket-index more robust
This experimental tool write a series of temporary files, the combined
size of which is roughly proportional to some combination of the
number of objects in the bucket and their respective sizes. Previously
the script stored all temporary files in /tmp, which may not be
sufficiently large in many cases.

There are now two enhancements. First, using the "-t" command-line
argument, the directory for temporary files can be specified. Second,
if the script consumes all available space on the file system
containing the temporary directory, an error message to that effect is
displayed, so the user understands what corrective action to take.

Signed-off-by: J. Eric Ivancich <ivancich@redhat.com>

doc/man/8/rgw-restore-bucket-index.rst, after:

:orphan:

==================================================================================
 rgw-restore-bucket-index -- try to restore a bucket's objects to its bucket index
==================================================================================

.. program:: rgw-restore-bucket-index

Synopsis
========

| **rgw-restore-bucket-index**

Description
===========

:program:`rgw-restore-bucket-index` is an *EXPERIMENTAL* RADOS gateway
user administration utility. It scans the data pool for objects that
belong to a given bucket and tries to add those objects back to the
bucket index. It's intended as a **last resort** after a
**catastrophic** loss of a bucket index. Please thorougly review the
*Warnings* listed below.

The utility works with regular (i.e., un-versioned) buckets, versioned
buckets, and buckets were versioning has been suspended.

Warnings
========

This utility is currently considered *EXPERIMENTAL*.

The results are unpredictable if the bucket is in
active use while this utility is running.

The results are unpredictable if only some bucket's objects are
missing from the bucket index. In such a case, consider using the
"object reindex" subcommand of `radosgw-admin` to restore object's to
the bucket index one-by-one.

For objects in versioned buckets, if the latest version is a delete
marker, it will be restored. If a delete marker has been written over
with a new version, then that delete marker will not be restored. This
should have minimal impact on results in that the it recovers the
latest version and previous versions are all accessible.

Command-Line Arguments
======================

.. option:: -b <bucket>

   Specify the bucket to be reindexed.

.. option:: -p <pool>

   Optional, specify the data pool containing head objects for the
   bucket. If omitted the utility will try to determine the data pool
   on its own.

.. option:: -r <realm-name>

   Optional, specify the realm if the restoration is not being applied
   to the default realm.

.. option:: -g <zonegroup-name>

   Optional, specify the zonegroup if the restoration is not being applied
   to the default zonegroup.

.. option:: -z <zone-name>

   Optional, specify the zone if the restoration is not being applied
   to the default zone.

.. option:: -l <rados-ls-output-file>

   Optional, specify a file containing the output of a rados listing
   of the data pool. Since listing the data pool can be an expensive
   and time-consuming operation, if trying to recover the indices for
   multiple buckets, it could be more efficient to re-use the same
   listing.

.. option:: -t <temporary-directory>

   Optional, specify a directory in which to store temporary files.
   The size of the temporary files is highly dependent on the number
   of bucket entries involved, so the partition on which the temporary
   directory exists should be of suitable size.

.. option:: -y

   Optional, proceed without further prompting. Without this option
   the utility will display some information and prompt the user as to
   whether to proceed. When provided, the utility will simply
   proceed. Please use caution when using this option.

Examples
========

Attempt to restore the index for a bucket named *summer-2023-photos*::

        $ rgw-restore-bucket-index -b summer-2023-photos

Availability
============

:program:`rgw-restore-bucket-index` is part of Ceph, a massively
scalable, open-source, distributed storage system.  Please refer to
the Ceph documentation at https://docs.ceph.com for more information.

See also
========

:doc:`radosgw-admin <radosgw-admin>`\(8)
