doc/install/get-packages.rst, before:

.. _packages:

==============
 Get Packages
==============

To install Ceph and other enabling software, you need to retrieve packages from
the Ceph repository. 

There are three ways to get packages:

- **Cephadm:** Cephadm can configure your Ceph repositories for you
  based on a release name or a specific Ceph version.  Each
  :term:`Ceph Node` in your cluster must have internet access.

- **Configure Repositories Manually:** You can manually configure your
  package management tool to retrieve Ceph packages and all enabling
  software.  Each :term:`Ceph Node` in your cluster must have internet
  access.

- **Download Packages Manually:** Downloading packages manually is a convenient
  way to install Ceph if your environment does not allow a :term:`Ceph Node` to
  access the internet.

Install packages with cephadm
=============================

#. Download cephadm

.. prompt:: bash $
   :substitutions:

   curl --silent --remote-name --location https://download.ceph.com/rpm-|stable-release|/el9/noarch/cephadm
   chmod +x cephadm

#. Configure the Ceph repository based on the release name::

     ./cephadm add-repo --release |stable-release|

   For Octopus (15.2.0) and later releases, you can also specify a specific
   version::

     ./cephadm add-repo --version 15.2.1

   For development packages, you can specify a specific branch name::

     ./cephadm add-repo --dev my-branch

#. Install the appropriate packages.  You can install them using your
   package management tool (e.g., APT, Yum) directly, or you can
   use the cephadm wrapper command.  For example::

     ./cephadm install ceph-common
   
     
Configure Repositories Manually
===============================

All Ceph deployments require Ceph packages (except for development). You should
also add keys and recommended packages.

- **Keys: (Recommended)** Whether you add repositories or download packages
  manually, you should download keys to verify the packages. If you do not get
  the keys, you may encounter security warnings.

- **Ceph: (Required)** All Ceph deployments require Ceph release packages,
  except for deployments that use development packages (development, QA, and
  bleeding edge deployments only).

- **Ceph Development: (Optional)** If you are developing for Ceph, testing Ceph
  development builds, or if you want features from the bleeding edge of Ceph
  development, you may get Ceph development packages.



Add Keys
--------

Add a key to your system's list of trusted keys to avoid a security warning. For
major releases (e.g., ``luminous``, ``mimic``, ``nautilus``) and development releases
(``release-name-rc1``, ``release-name-rc2``), use the ``release.asc`` key.


APT
~~~

To install the ``release.asc`` key, execute the following::

	wget -q -O- 'https://download.ceph.com/keys/release.asc' | sudo apt-key add -


RPM
~~~

To install the ``release.asc`` key, execute the following::

	sudo rpm --import 'https://download.ceph.com/keys/release.asc'

Ceph Release Packages
---------------------

Release repositories use the ``release.asc`` key to verify packages.
To install Ceph packages with the Advanced Package Tool (APT) or
Yellowdog Updater, Modified (YUM), you must add Ceph repositories.

You may find releases for Debian/Ubuntu (installed with APT) at::

	https://download.ceph.com/debian-{release-name}

You may find releases for CentOS/RHEL and others (installed with YUM) at::

	https://download.ceph.com/rpm-{release-name}

For Octopus and later releases, you can also configure a repository for a
specific version ``x.y.z``.  For Debian/Ubuntu packages::

  https://download.ceph.com/debian-{version}

For RPMs::

  https://download.ceph.com/rpm-{version}

The major releases of Ceph are summarized at: `Releases`_

.. tip:: For non-US users: There might be a mirror close to you where
         to download Ceph from. For more information see: `Ceph Mirrors`_.

Debian Packages
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Add a Ceph package repository to your system's list of APT sources. For newer
versions of Debian/Ubuntu, call ``lsb_release -sc`` on the command line to
get the short codename, and replace ``{codename}`` in the following command.

.. prompt:: bash $
   :substitutions:

   sudo apt-add-repository 'deb https://download.ceph.com/debian-|stable-release|/ {codename} main'

For early Linux distributions, you may execute the following command

.. prompt:: bash $
   :substitutions:

   echo deb https://download.ceph.com/debian-|stable-release|/ $(lsb_release -sc) main | sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/ceph.list

For earlier Ceph releases, replace ``{release-name}`` with the name  with the
name of the Ceph release. You may call ``lsb_release -sc`` on the command  line
to get the short codename, and replace ``{codename}`` in the following command.

.. prompt:: bash $

   sudo apt-add-repository 'deb https://download.ceph.com/debian-{release-name}/ {codename} main'

For older Linux distributions, replace ``{release-name}`` with the name of the
release

.. prompt:: bash $

	echo deb https://download.ceph.com/debian-{release-name}/ $(lsb_release -sc) main | sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/ceph.list

For development release packages, add our package repository to your system's
list of APT sources.  See `the testing Debian repository`_ for a complete list
of Debian and Ubuntu releases supported.

.. prompt:: bash $

   echo deb https://download.ceph.com/debian-testing/ $(lsb_release -sc) main | sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/ceph.list

.. tip:: For non-US users: There might be a mirror close to you where
         to download Ceph from. For more information see: `Ceph Mirrors`_.


RPM Packages
~~~~~~~~~~~~

RHEL
^^^^

For major releases, you may add a Ceph entry to the ``/etc/yum.repos.d``
directory. Create a ``ceph.repo`` file. In the example below, replace
``{ceph-release}`` with  a major release of Ceph (e.g., ``|stable-release|``)
and ``{distro}`` with your Linux distribution (e.g., ``el8``, etc.).  You
may view https://download.ceph.com/rpm-{ceph-release}/ directory to see which
distributions Ceph supports. Some Ceph packages (e.g., EPEL) must take priority
over standard packages, so you must ensure that you set
``priority=2``.

.. code-block:: ini

	[ceph]
	name=Ceph packages for $basearch
	baseurl=https://download.ceph.com/rpm-{ceph-release}/{distro}/$basearch
	enabled=1
	priority=2
	gpgcheck=1
	gpgkey=https://download.ceph.com/keys/release.asc

	[ceph-noarch]
	name=Ceph noarch packages
	baseurl=https://download.ceph.com/rpm-{ceph-release}/{distro}/noarch
	enabled=1
	priority=2
	gpgcheck=1
	gpgkey=https://download.ceph.com/keys/release.asc

	[ceph-source]
	name=Ceph source packages
	baseurl=https://download.ceph.com/rpm-{ceph-release}/{distro}/SRPMS
	enabled=0
	priority=2
	gpgcheck=1
	gpgkey=https://download.ceph.com/keys/release.asc


For specific packages, you may retrieve them by downloading the release package
by name. Our development process generates a new release of Ceph every 3-4
weeks. These packages are faster-moving than the major releases.  Development
packages have new features integrated quickly, while still undergoing several
weeks of QA prior to release.

The repository package installs the repository details on your local system for
use with ``yum``. Replace ``{distro}`` with your Linux distribution, and
``{release}`` with the specific release of Ceph

.. prompt:: bash $

    su -c 'rpm -Uvh https://download.ceph.com/rpms/{distro}/x86_64/ceph-{release}.el8.noarch.rpm'

You can download the RPMs directly from

.. code-block:: none

   https://download.ceph.com/rpm-testing

.. tip:: For non-US users: There might be a mirror close to you where
         to download Ceph from. For more information see: `Ceph Mirrors`_.

openSUSE Leap 15.1
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

You need to add the Ceph package repository to your list of zypper sources. This can be done with the following command

.. code-block:: bash

    zypper ar https://download.opensuse.org/repositories/filesystems:/ceph/openSUSE_Leap_15.1/filesystems:ceph.repo

openSUSE Tumbleweed
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The newest major release of Ceph is already available through the normal Tumbleweed repositories.
There's no need to add another package repository manually.


Ceph Development Packages
-------------------------

If you are developing Ceph and need to deploy and test specific Ceph branches,
ensure that you remove repository entries for major releases first.


DEB Packages
~~~~~~~~~~~~

We automatically build Ubuntu packages for current development branches in the
Ceph source code repository.  These packages are intended for developers and QA
only.

Add the package repository to your system's list of APT sources, but
replace ``{BRANCH}`` with the branch you'd like to use (e.g.,
wip-hack, master).  See `the shaman page`_ for a complete
list of distributions we build.

.. prompt:: bash $

    curl -L https://shaman.ceph.com/api/repos/ceph/{BRANCH}/latest/ubuntu/$(lsb_release -sc)/repo/ | sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/shaman.list

.. note:: If the repository is not ready an HTTP 504 will be returned

The use of ``latest`` in the url, means it will figure out which is the last
commit that has been built. Alternatively, a specific sha1 can be specified.
For Ubuntu Xenial and the master branch of Ceph, it would look like

.. prompt:: bash $

    curl -L https://shaman.ceph.com/api/repos/ceph/master/53e772a45fdf2d211c0c383106a66e1feedec8fd/ubuntu/xenial/repo/ | sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/shaman.list


.. warning:: Development repositories are no longer available after two weeks.

RPM Packages
~~~~~~~~~~~~

For current development branches, you may add a Ceph entry to the
``/etc/yum.repos.d`` directory. The `the shaman page`_ can be used to retrieve the full details
of a repo file. It can be retrieved via an HTTP request, for example

.. prompt:: bash $

    curl -L https://shaman.ceph.com/api/repos/ceph/{BRANCH}/latest/centos/8/repo/ | sudo tee /etc/yum.repos.d/shaman.repo

The use of ``latest`` in the url, means it will figure out which is the last
commit that has been built. Alternatively, a specific sha1 can be specified.
For CentOS 8 and the master branch of Ceph, it would look like

.. prompt:: bash $

    curl -L https://shaman.ceph.com/api/repos/ceph/master/488e6be0edff7eb18343fd5c7e2d7ed56435888f/centos/8/repo/ | sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/shaman.list


.. warning:: Development repositories are no longer available after two weeks.

.. note:: If the repository is not ready an HTTP 504 will be returned

Download Packages Manually
--------------------------

If you are attempting to install behind a firewall in an environment without internet
access, you must retrieve the packages (mirrored with all the necessary dependencies)
before attempting an install.

Debian Packages
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The repository package installs the repository details on your local system for
use with ``apt``. Replace ``{release}`` with the latest Ceph release. Replace
``{version}`` with the latest Ceph version number. Replace ``{distro}`` with
your Linux distribution codename. Replace ``{arch}`` with the CPU architecture.

.. prompt:: bash $

	wget -q https://download.ceph.com/debian-{release}/pool/main/c/ceph/ceph_{version}{distro}_{arch}.deb


RPM Packages
~~~~~~~~~~~~

Ceph requires additional third party libraries.
To add the EPEL repository, execute the following

.. prompt:: bash $

   sudo yum install -y https://dl.fedoraproject.org/pub/epel/epel-release-latest-8.noarch.rpm

Packages are currently built for the RHEL/CentOS8 (``el8``) platforms.  The
repository package installs the repository details on your local system for use
with ``yum``. Replace ``{distro}`` with your distribution.

.. prompt:: bash $
   :substitutions:

   su -c 'rpm -Uvh https://download.ceph.com/rpm-|stable-release|/{distro}/noarch/ceph-{version}.{distro}.noarch.rpm'

For example, for CentOS 8  (``el8``)

.. prompt:: bash $
   :substitutions:

   su -c 'rpm -Uvh https://download.ceph.com/rpm-|stable-release|/el8/noarch/ceph-release-1-0.el8.noarch.rpm'

You can download the RPMs directly from

.. code-block:: none
   :substitutions:

   https://download.ceph.com/rpm-|stable-release|


For earlier Ceph releases, replace ``{release-name}`` with the name
with the name of the Ceph release. You may call ``lsb_release -sc`` on the command
line to get the short codename.

.. prompt:: bash $

	su -c 'rpm -Uvh https://download.ceph.com/rpm-{release-name}/{distro}/noarch/ceph-{version}.{distro}.noarch.rpm'



.. _Releases: https://docs.ceph.com/en/latest/releases/
.. _the testing Debian repository: https://download.ceph.com/debian-testing/dists
.. _the shaman page: https://shaman.ceph.com
.. _Ceph Mirrors: ../mirrors

Commit message:

ceph.spec.in: add support for openEuler OS
The ceph main branch daily build on openEuler has been built.
https://github.com/openeuler-mirror/ceph-daily-build
The verification includes:
    - build ceph from source
    - run unit test
    - build RPM package

Signed-off-by: liuqinfei <lucas.liuqinfei@huawei.com>
(cherry picked from commit 14c1f3ddd627d752563a268a534870a921256996)

doc/install/get-packages.rst, after:

.. _packages:

==============
 Get Packages
==============

To install Ceph and other enabling software, you need to retrieve packages from
the Ceph repository. 

There are three ways to get packages:

- **Cephadm:** Cephadm can configure your Ceph repositories for you
  based on a release name or a specific Ceph version.  Each
  :term:`Ceph Node` in your cluster must have internet access.

- **Configure Repositories Manually:** You can manually configure your
  package management tool to retrieve Ceph packages and all enabling
  software.  Each :term:`Ceph Node` in your cluster must have internet
  access.

- **Download Packages Manually:** Downloading packages manually is a convenient
  way to install Ceph if your environment does not allow a :term:`Ceph Node` to
  access the internet.

Install packages with cephadm
=============================

#. Download cephadm

.. prompt:: bash $
   :substitutions:

   curl --silent --remote-name --location https://download.ceph.com/rpm-|stable-release|/el9/noarch/cephadm
   chmod +x cephadm

#. Configure the Ceph repository based on the release name::

     ./cephadm add-repo --release |stable-release|

   For Octopus (15.2.0) and later releases, you can also specify a specific
   version::

     ./cephadm add-repo --version 15.2.1

   For development packages, you can specify a specific branch name::

     ./cephadm add-repo --dev my-branch

#. Install the appropriate packages.  You can install them using your
   package management tool (e.g., APT, Yum) directly, or you can
   use the cephadm wrapper command.  For example::

     ./cephadm install ceph-common
   
     
Configure Repositories Manually
===============================

All Ceph deployments require Ceph packages (except for development). You should
also add keys and recommended packages.

- **Keys: (Recommended)** Whether you add repositories or download packages
  manually, you should download keys to verify the packages. If you do not get
  the keys, you may encounter security warnings.

- **Ceph: (Required)** All Ceph deployments require Ceph release packages,
  except for deployments that use development packages (development, QA, and
  bleeding edge deployments only).

- **Ceph Development: (Optional)** If you are developing for Ceph, testing Ceph
  development builds, or if you want features from the bleeding edge of Ceph
  development, you may get Ceph development packages.



Add Keys
--------

Add a key to your system's list of trusted keys to avoid a security warning. For
major releases (e.g., ``luminous``, ``mimic``, ``nautilus``) and development releases
(``release-name-rc1``, ``release-name-rc2``), use the ``release.asc`` key.


APT
~~~

To install the ``release.asc`` key, execute the following::

	wget -q -O- 'https://download.ceph.com/keys/release.asc' | sudo apt-key add -


RPM
~~~

To install the ``release.asc`` key, execute the following::

	sudo rpm --import 'https://download.ceph.com/keys/release.asc'

Ceph Release Packages
---------------------

Release repositories use the ``release.asc`` key to verify packages.
To install Ceph packages with the Advanced Package Tool (APT) or
Yellowdog Updater, Modified (YUM), you must add Ceph repositories.

You may find releases for Debian/Ubuntu (installed with APT) at::

	https://download.ceph.com/debian-{release-name}

You may find releases for CentOS/RHEL and others (installed with YUM) at::

	https://download.ceph.com/rpm-{release-name}

For Octopus and later releases, you can also configure a repository for a
specific version ``x.y.z``.  For Debian/Ubuntu packages::

  https://download.ceph.com/debian-{version}

For RPMs::

  https://download.ceph.com/rpm-{version}

The major releases of Ceph are summarized at: `Releases`_

.. tip:: For non-US users: There might be a mirror close to you where
         to download Ceph from. For more information see: `Ceph Mirrors`_.

Debian Packages
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Add a Ceph package repository to your system's list of APT sources. For newer
versions of Debian/Ubuntu, call ``lsb_release -sc`` on the command line to
get the short codename, and replace ``{codename}`` in the following command.

.. prompt:: bash $
   :substitutions:

   sudo apt-add-repository 'deb https://download.ceph.com/debian-|stable-release|/ {codename} main'

For early Linux distributions, you may execute the following command

.. prompt:: bash $
   :substitutions:

   echo deb https://download.ceph.com/debian-|stable-release|/ $(lsb_release -sc) main | sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/ceph.list

For earlier Ceph releases, replace ``{release-name}`` with the name  with the
name of the Ceph release. You may call ``lsb_release -sc`` on the command  line
to get the short codename, and replace ``{codename}`` in the following command.

.. prompt:: bash $

   sudo apt-add-repository 'deb https://download.ceph.com/debian-{release-name}/ {codename} main'

For older Linux distributions, replace ``{release-name}`` with the name of the
release

.. prompt:: bash $

	echo deb https://download.ceph.com/debian-{release-name}/ $(lsb_release -sc) main | sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/ceph.list

For development release packages, add our package repository to your system's
list of APT sources.  See `the testing Debian repository`_ for a complete list
of Debian and Ubuntu releases supported.

.. prompt:: bash $

   echo deb https://download.ceph.com/debian-testing/ $(lsb_release -sc) main | sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/ceph.list

.. tip:: For non-US users: There might be a mirror close to you where
         to download Ceph from. For more information see: `Ceph Mirrors`_.


RPM Packages
~~~~~~~~~~~~

RHEL
^^^^

For major releases, you may add a Ceph entry to the ``/etc/yum.repos.d``
directory. Create a ``ceph.repo`` file. In the example below, replace
``{ceph-release}`` with  a major release of Ceph (e.g., ``|stable-release|``)
and ``{distro}`` with your Linux distribution (e.g., ``el8``, etc.).  You
may view https://download.ceph.com/rpm-{ceph-release}/ directory to see which
distributions Ceph supports. Some Ceph packages (e.g., EPEL) must take priority
over standard packages, so you must ensure that you set
``priority=2``.

.. code-block:: ini

	[ceph]
	name=Ceph packages for $basearch
	baseurl=https://download.ceph.com/rpm-{ceph-release}/{distro}/$basearch
	enabled=1
	priority=2
	gpgcheck=1
	gpgkey=https://download.ceph.com/keys/release.asc

	[ceph-noarch]
	name=Ceph noarch packages
	baseurl=https://download.ceph.com/rpm-{ceph-release}/{distro}/noarch
	enabled=1
	priority=2
	gpgcheck=1
	gpgkey=https://download.ceph.com/keys/release.asc

	[ceph-source]
	name=Ceph source packages
	baseurl=https://download.ceph.com/rpm-{ceph-release}/{distro}/SRPMS
	enabled=0
	priority=2
	gpgcheck=1
	gpgkey=https://download.ceph.com/keys/release.asc


For specific packages, you may retrieve them by downloading the release package
by name. Our development process generates a new release of Ceph every 3-4
weeks. These packages are faster-moving than the major releases.  Development
packages have new features integrated quickly, while still undergoing several
weeks of QA prior to release.

The repository package installs the repository details on your local system for
use with ``yum``. Replace ``{distro}`` with your Linux distribution, and
``{release}`` with the specific release of Ceph

.. prompt:: bash $

    su -c 'rpm -Uvh https://download.ceph.com/rpms/{distro}/x86_64/ceph-{release}.el8.noarch.rpm'

You can download the RPMs directly from

.. code-block:: none

   https://download.ceph.com/rpm-testing

.. tip:: For non-US users: There might be a mirror close to you where
         to download Ceph from. For more information see: `Ceph Mirrors`_.

openSUSE Leap 15.1
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

You need to add the Ceph package repository to your list of zypper sources. This can be done with the following command

.. code-block:: bash

    zypper ar https://download.opensuse.org/repositories/filesystems:/ceph/openSUSE_Leap_15.1/filesystems:ceph.repo

openSUSE Tumbleweed
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The newest major release of Ceph is already available through the normal Tumbleweed repositories.
There's no need to add another package repository manually.

openEuler
^^^^^^^^^

There are two major versions supported in normal openEuler repositories. They are ceph 12.2.8 in openEuler-20.03-LTS series and ceph 16.2.7 in openEuler-22.03-LTS series. There’s no need to add another package repository manually.
You can install ceph just by executing the following:

.. prompt:: bash $

    sudo yum -y install ceph

Also you can download packages manually from https://repo.openeuler.org/openEuler-{release}/everything/{arch}/Packages/.

Ceph Development Packages
-------------------------

If you are developing Ceph and need to deploy and test specific Ceph branches,
ensure that you remove repository entries for major releases first.


DEB Packages
~~~~~~~~~~~~

We automatically build Ubuntu packages for current development branches in the
Ceph source code repository.  These packages are intended for developers and QA
only.

Add the package repository to your system's list of APT sources, but
replace ``{BRANCH}`` with the branch you'd like to use (e.g.,
wip-hack, master).  See `the shaman page`_ for a complete
list of distributions we build.

.. prompt:: bash $

    curl -L https://shaman.ceph.com/api/repos/ceph/{BRANCH}/latest/ubuntu/$(lsb_release -sc)/repo/ | sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/shaman.list

.. note:: If the repository is not ready an HTTP 504 will be returned

The use of ``latest`` in the url, means it will figure out which is the last
commit that has been built. Alternatively, a specific sha1 can be specified.
For Ubuntu Xenial and the master branch of Ceph, it would look like

.. prompt:: bash $

    curl -L https://shaman.ceph.com/api/repos/ceph/master/53e772a45fdf2d211c0c383106a66e1feedec8fd/ubuntu/xenial/repo/ | sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/shaman.list


.. warning:: Development repositories are no longer available after two weeks.

RPM Packages
~~~~~~~~~~~~

For current development branches, you may add a Ceph entry to the
``/etc/yum.repos.d`` directory. The `the shaman page`_ can be used to retrieve the full details
of a repo file. It can be retrieved via an HTTP request, for example

.. prompt:: bash $

    curl -L https://shaman.ceph.com/api/repos/ceph/{BRANCH}/latest/centos/8/repo/ | sudo tee /etc/yum.repos.d/shaman.repo

The use of ``latest`` in the url, means it will figure out which is the last
commit that has been built. Alternatively, a specific sha1 can be specified.
For CentOS 8 and the master branch of Ceph, it would look like

.. prompt:: bash $

    curl -L https://shaman.ceph.com/api/repos/ceph/master/488e6be0edff7eb18343fd5c7e2d7ed56435888f/centos/8/repo/ | sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/shaman.list


.. warning:: Development repositories are no longer available after two weeks.

.. note:: If the repository is not ready an HTTP 504 will be returned

Download Packages Manually
--------------------------

If you are attempting to install behind a firewall in an environment without internet
access, you must retrieve the packages (mirrored with all the necessary dependencies)
before attempting an install.

Debian Packages
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The repository package installs the repository details on your local system for
use with ``apt``. Replace ``{release}`` with the latest Ceph release. Replace
``{version}`` with the latest Ceph version number. Replace ``{distro}`` with
your Linux distribution codename. Replace ``{arch}`` with the CPU architecture.

.. prompt:: bash $

	wget -q https://download.ceph.com/debian-{release}/pool/main/c/ceph/ceph_{version}{distro}_{arch}.deb


RPM Packages
~~~~~~~~~~~~

Ceph requires additional third party libraries.
To add the EPEL repository, execute the following

.. prompt:: bash $

   sudo yum install -y https://dl.fedoraproject.org/pub/epel/epel-release-latest-8.noarch.rpm

Packages are currently built for the RHEL/CentOS8 (``el8``) platforms.  The
repository package installs the repository details on your local system for use
with ``yum``. Replace ``{distro}`` with your distribution.

.. prompt:: bash $
   :substitutions:

   su -c 'rpm -Uvh https://download.ceph.com/rpm-|stable-release|/{distro}/noarch/ceph-{version}.{distro}.noarch.rpm'

For example, for CentOS 8  (``el8``)

.. prompt:: bash $
   :substitutions:

   su -c 'rpm -Uvh https://download.ceph.com/rpm-|stable-release|/el8/noarch/ceph-release-1-0.el8.noarch.rpm'

You can download the RPMs directly from

.. code-block:: none
   :substitutions:

   https://download.ceph.com/rpm-|stable-release|


For earlier Ceph releases, replace ``{release-name}`` with the name
with the name of the Ceph release. You may call ``lsb_release -sc`` on the command
line to get the short codename.

.. prompt:: bash $

	su -c 'rpm -Uvh https://download.ceph.com/rpm-{release-name}/{distro}/noarch/ceph-{version}.{distro}.noarch.rpm'



.. _Releases: https://docs.ceph.com/en/latest/releases/
.. _the testing Debian repository: https://download.ceph.com/debian-testing/dists
.. _the shaman page: https://shaman.ceph.com
.. _Ceph Mirrors: ../mirrors
