doc/dev/generatedocs.rst, before:

Building Ceph Documentation
===========================

Ceph utilizes Python's Sphinx documentation tool. For details on
the Sphinx documentation tool, refer to `The Sphinx Documentation Tool <http://sphinx.pocoo.org/>`_.

To build the Ceph documentation set, you must:

1. Clone the Ceph repository
2. Install the required tools
3. Build the documents

Clone the Ceph Repository
-------------------------

To clone the Ceph repository, you must have ``git`` installed
on your local host. To install ``git``, execute::

	sudo apt-get install git

To clone the Ceph repository, execute::

	git clone git://github.com/ceph/ceph

You should have a full copy of the Ceph repository.


Install the Required Tools
--------------------------

To build the Ceph documentation, the following packages are required on
Ubuntu 14.04:

- ``python-dev``
- ``python-pip``
- ``python-virtualenv``
- ``libxml2-dev``
- ``libxslt-dev``
- ``doxygen``
- ``ditaa``
- ``graphviz``
- ``ant``
- ``cython``
- ``librbd-dev``

Execute ``apt-get install`` for each dependency that isn't installed
on your host.::

	sudo apt-get install python-dev python-pip python-virtualenv libxml2-dev libxslt-dev doxygen ditaa graphviz ant cython librbd-dev



Build the Documents
-------------------

Once you have installed all the dependencies, execute the build::

	cd ceph
	admin/build-doc

Once you build the documentation set, you may navigate to the source directory to view it::

	cd build-doc/output

There should be an ``html`` directory and a ``man`` directory containing documentation
in HTML and manpage formats respectively.

Commit message:

doc: update the "building doc" part
* In the doc, the explicit and outdated list of required
  dependencies is removed. Now, launching `./admin/build-doc`
  is suggested because the script gives the missing dependencies.
* Little refactoring of the "Debian checking dependencies" part
  in the script `./admin/build-doc`.
* In the suggested "apt-get" command to install dependencies, the
  option `-o APT::Install-Recommends=true` is added just in case.

Signed-off-by: François Lafont <francois.lafont@ac-versailles.fr>

doc/dev/generatedocs.rst, after:

Building Ceph Documentation
===========================

Ceph utilizes Python's Sphinx documentation tool. For details on
the Sphinx documentation tool, refer to `The Sphinx Documentation Tool <http://sphinx.pocoo.org/>`_.

To build the Ceph documentation set, you must:

1. Clone the Ceph repository
2. Install the required tools
3. Build the documents

Clone the Ceph Repository
-------------------------

To clone the Ceph repository, you must have ``git`` installed
on your local host. To install ``git``, execute::

	sudo apt-get install git

To clone the Ceph repository, execute::

	git clone git://github.com/ceph/ceph

You should have a full copy of the Ceph repository.


Install the Required Tools
--------------------------

To build the Ceph documentation, some dependencies are required.
To know what packages are needed, you can launch this command::

    cd ceph
    admin/build-doc

If dependencies are missing, the command above will fail
with a message that suggests you a command to install all
missing dependencies.


Build the Documents
-------------------

Once you have installed all the dependencies, execute the build (the
same command as above)::

	cd ceph
	admin/build-doc

Once you build the documentation set, you may navigate to the source directory to view it::

	cd build-doc/output

There should be an ``html`` directory and a ``man`` directory containing documentation
in HTML and manpage formats respectively.
