src/pybind/mgr/cephadm/HACKING.rst, before:

Development
===========


There are multiple ways to set up a development environment for the SSH orchestrator.
In the following I'll use the `vstart` method.

1) Make sure remoto is installed (0.35 or newer)

2) Use vstart to spin up a cluster


::

   # ../src/vstart.sh -n --cephadm

*Note that when you specify `--cephadm` you have to have passwordless ssh access to localhost*

It will add your ~/.ssh/id_rsa and ~/.ssh/id_rsa.pub to `mgr/ssh/ssh_identity_{key, pub}`
and add your $HOSTNAME to the list of known hosts.

This will also enable the cephadm mgr module and enable it as the orchestrator backend.

*Optional:*

While the above is sufficient for most operations, you may want to add a second host to the mix.
There is `Vagrantfile` for creating a minimal cluster in `src/pybind/mgr/cephadm/`.

If you wish to extend the one-node-localhost cluster to i.e. test more sophisticated OSD deployments you can follow the next steps:

From within the `src/pybind/mgr/cephadm` directory.


1) Spawn VMs

::

   # vagrant up

This will spawn three machines.
mon0, mgr0, osd0

NUM_DAEMONS can be used to increase the number of VMs created. (defaults to 1)

If will also come with the necessary packages preinstalled as well as your ~/.ssh/id_rsa.pub key
injected. (to users root and vagrant; the cephadm-orchestrator currently connects as root)


2) Update the ssh-config

The cephadm orchestrator needs to understand how to connect to the new node. Most likely the VM isn't reachable with the default settings used:

```
Host *
User root
StrictHostKeyChecking no
```

You want to adjust this by retrieving an adapted ssh_config from Vagrant.

::

   # vagrant ssh-config > ssh-config


Now set the newly created config for Ceph.

::

   # ceph cephadm set-ssh-config -i <path_to_ssh_conf>


3) Add the new host

Add the newly created host(s) to the inventory.

::


   # ceph orch host add <host>


4) Verify the inventory

::

   # ceph orch host ls


You should see the hostname in the list.

Understanding ``AsyncCompletion``
=================================

How can I store temporary variables?
------------------------------------

Let's imagine you want to write code similar to

.. code:: python

    hosts = self.get_hosts()
    inventory = self.get_inventory(hosts)
    return self._create_osd(hosts, drive_group, inventory)

That won't work, as ``get_hosts`` and ``get_inventory`` return objects
of type ``AsyncCompletion``.

Now let's imaging a Python 3 world, where we can use ``async`` and
``await``. Then we actually can write this like so:

.. code:: python

    hosts = await self.get_hosts()
    inventory = await self.get_inventory(hosts)
    return self._create_osd(hosts, drive_group, inventory)

Let's use a simple example to make this clear:

.. code:: python

    val = await func_1()
    return func_2(val)

As we're not yet in Python 3, we need to do write ``await`` manually by
calling ``orchestrator.Completion.then()``:

.. code:: python

    func_1().then(lambda val: func_2(val))

    # or
    func_1().then(func_2)

Now let's desugar the original example:

.. code:: python

    hosts = await self.get_hosts()
    inventory = await self.get_inventory(hosts)
    return self._create_osd(hosts, drive_group, inventory)

Now let's replace one ``async`` at a time:

.. code:: python

    hosts = await self.get_hosts()
    return self.get_inventory(hosts).then(lambda inventory:
        self._create_osd(hosts, drive_group, inventory))

Then finally:

.. code:: python

    self.get_hosts().then(lambda hosts:
        self.get_inventory(hosts).then(lambda inventory:
         self._create_osd(hosts,
                          drive_group, inventory)))

This also works without lambdas:

.. code:: python

    def call_inventory(hosts):
        def call_create(inventory)
            return self._create_osd(hosts, drive_group, inventory)

        return self.get_inventory(hosts).then(call_create)

    self.get_hosts(call_inventory)

We should add support for ``await`` as soon as we're on Python 3.

I want to call my function for every host!
------------------------------------------

Imagine you have a function that looks like so:

.. code:: python

    @async_completion
    def deploy_stuff(name, node):
        ...

And you want to call ``deploy_stuff`` like so:

.. code:: python

    return [deploy_stuff(name, node) for node in nodes]

This won't work as expected. The number of ``AsyncCompletion`` objects
created should be ``O(1)``. But there is a solution:
``@async_map_completion``

.. code:: python

    @async_map_completion
    def deploy_stuff(name, node):
        ...

    return deploy_stuff([(name, node) for node in nodes])

This way, we're only creating one ``AsyncCompletion`` object. Note that
you should not create new ``AsyncCompletion`` within ``deploy_stuff``, as
we're then no longer have ``O(1)`` completions:

.. code:: python

    @async_completion
    def other_async_function():
        ...

    @async_map_completion
    def deploy_stuff(name, node):
        return other_async_function() # wrong!

Why do we need this?
--------------------

I've tried to look into making Completions composable by being able to
call one completion from another completion. I.e. making them re-usable
using Promises E.g.:

.. code:: python

    >>> return self.get_hosts().then(self._create_osd)

where ``get_hosts`` returns a Completion of list of hosts and
``_create_osd`` takes a list of hosts.

The concept behind this is to store the computation steps explicit and
then explicitly evaluate the chain:

.. code:: python

    p = Completion(on_complete=lambda x: x*2).then(on_complete=lambda x: str(x))
    p.finalize(2)
    assert p.result = "4"

or graphically:

::

    +---------------+      +-----------------+
    |               | then |                 |
    | lambda x: x*x | +--> | lambda x: str(x)|
    |               |      |                 |
    +---------------+      +-----------------+

Commit message:

cephadm: Make Vagrantfile more flexible
Now you can use a JSON or pass multiple variable to vagrant in order to
configure the outcome of VMs you get. Similar to vstart.sh you can use
OSDS, MGRS and MONS as arguments to pass. As OSDS behave a bit different
in this scenario you can also specify the amount of extra disks and OSD
VM has.

Fixes: https://tracker.ceph.com/issues/46376
Signed-off-by: Stephan Müller <smueller@suse.com>
(cherry picked from commit c767a0c0e8ffed4448e4d2cacef72674e7ada883)

src/pybind/mgr/cephadm/HACKING.rst, after:

Development
===========


There are multiple ways to set up a development environment for the SSH orchestrator.
In the following I'll use the `vstart` method.

1) Make sure remoto is installed (0.35 or newer)

2) Use vstart to spin up a cluster


::

   # ../src/vstart.sh -n --cephadm

*Note that when you specify `--cephadm` you have to have passwordless ssh access to localhost*

It will add your ~/.ssh/id_rsa and ~/.ssh/id_rsa.pub to `mgr/ssh/ssh_identity_{key, pub}`
and add your $HOSTNAME to the list of known hosts.

This will also enable the cephadm mgr module and enable it as the orchestrator backend.

*Optional:*

While the above is sufficient for most operations, you may want to add a second host to the mix.
There is `Vagrantfile` for creating a minimal cluster in `src/pybind/mgr/cephadm/`.

If you wish to extend the one-node-localhost cluster to i.e. test more sophisticated OSD deployments you can follow the next steps:

From within the `src/pybind/mgr/cephadm` directory.


1) Spawn VMs

::

   # vagrant up

This will spawn three machines by default.
mon0, mgr0 and osd0 with 2 additional disks.

You can change that by passing `MONS` (default: 1), `MGRS` (default: 1), `OSDS` (default: 1) and
`DISKS` (default: 2) environment variables to overwrite the defaults. In order to not always have
to set the environment variables you can now create as JSON see `./vagrant.config.example.json`
for details.

If will also come with the necessary packages preinstalled as well as your ~/.ssh/id_rsa.pub key
injected. (to users root and vagrant; the cephadm-orchestrator currently connects as root)


2) Update the ssh-config

The cephadm orchestrator needs to understand how to connect to the new node. Most likely the VM
isn't reachable with the default settings used:

```
Host *
User root
StrictHostKeyChecking no
```

You want to adjust this by retrieving an adapted ssh_config from Vagrant.

::

   # vagrant ssh-config > ssh-config


Now set the newly created config for Ceph.

::

   # ceph cephadm set-ssh-config -i <path_to_ssh_conf>


3) Add the new host

Add the newly created host(s) to the inventory.

::


   # ceph orch host add <host>


4) Verify the inventory

You should see the hostname in the list.

::

   # ceph orch host ls


5) Verify the devices

To verify all disks are set and in good shape look if all devices have been spawned
and can be found

::

   # ceph orch device ls


6) Make a snapshot of all your VMs!

To not go the long way again the next time snapshot your VMs in order to revert them back
if they are dirty.

In `this repository <https://github.com/Devp00l/vagrant-helper-scripts>`_ you can find two
scripts that will help you with doing a snapshot and reverting it, without having to manual
snapshot and revert each VM individually.


Understanding ``AsyncCompletion``
=================================

How can I store temporary variables?
------------------------------------

Let's imagine you want to write code similar to

.. code:: python

    hosts = self.get_hosts()
    inventory = self.get_inventory(hosts)
    return self._create_osd(hosts, drive_group, inventory)

That won't work, as ``get_hosts`` and ``get_inventory`` return objects
of type ``AsyncCompletion``.

Now let's imaging a Python 3 world, where we can use ``async`` and
``await``. Then we actually can write this like so:

.. code:: python

    hosts = await self.get_hosts()
    inventory = await self.get_inventory(hosts)
    return self._create_osd(hosts, drive_group, inventory)

Let's use a simple example to make this clear:

.. code:: python

    val = await func_1()
    return func_2(val)

As we're not yet in Python 3, we need to do write ``await`` manually by
calling ``orchestrator.Completion.then()``:

.. code:: python

    func_1().then(lambda val: func_2(val))

    # or
    func_1().then(func_2)

Now let's desugar the original example:

.. code:: python

    hosts = await self.get_hosts()
    inventory = await self.get_inventory(hosts)
    return self._create_osd(hosts, drive_group, inventory)

Now let's replace one ``async`` at a time:

.. code:: python

    hosts = await self.get_hosts()
    return self.get_inventory(hosts).then(lambda inventory:
        self._create_osd(hosts, drive_group, inventory))

Then finally:

.. code:: python

    self.get_hosts().then(lambda hosts:
        self.get_inventory(hosts).then(lambda inventory:
         self._create_osd(hosts,
                          drive_group, inventory)))

This also works without lambdas:

.. code:: python

    def call_inventory(hosts):
        def call_create(inventory)
            return self._create_osd(hosts, drive_group, inventory)

        return self.get_inventory(hosts).then(call_create)

    self.get_hosts(call_inventory)

We should add support for ``await`` as soon as we're on Python 3.

I want to call my function for every host!
------------------------------------------

Imagine you have a function that looks like so:

.. code:: python

    @async_completion
    def deploy_stuff(name, node):
        ...

And you want to call ``deploy_stuff`` like so:

.. code:: python

    return [deploy_stuff(name, node) for node in nodes]

This won't work as expected. The number of ``AsyncCompletion`` objects
created should be ``O(1)``. But there is a solution:
``@async_map_completion``

.. code:: python

    @async_map_completion
    def deploy_stuff(name, node):
        ...

    return deploy_stuff([(name, node) for node in nodes])

This way, we're only creating one ``AsyncCompletion`` object. Note that
you should not create new ``AsyncCompletion`` within ``deploy_stuff``, as
we're then no longer have ``O(1)`` completions:

.. code:: python

    @async_completion
    def other_async_function():
        ...

    @async_map_completion
    def deploy_stuff(name, node):
        return other_async_function() # wrong!

Why do we need this?
--------------------

I've tried to look into making Completions composable by being able to
call one completion from another completion. I.e. making them re-usable
using Promises E.g.:

.. code:: python

    >>> return self.get_hosts().then(self._create_osd)

where ``get_hosts`` returns a Completion of list of hosts and
``_create_osd`` takes a list of hosts.

The concept behind this is to store the computation steps explicit and
then explicitly evaluate the chain:

.. code:: python

    p = Completion(on_complete=lambda x: x*2).then(on_complete=lambda x: str(x))
    p.finalize(2)
    assert p.result = "4"

or graphically:

::

    +---------------+      +-----------------+
    |               | then |                 |
    | lambda x: x*x | +--> | lambda x: str(x)|
    |               |      |                 |
    +---------------+      +-----------------+
