doc/foundation.rst, before:


.. _foundation:

=================
 Ceph Foundation
=================

The Ceph Foundation exists to enable industry members to collaborate
and pool resources to support the Ceph project community. The
Foundation provides an open, collaborative, and neutral home for
project stakeholders to coordinate their development and community
investments in the Ceph ecosystem.

The Ceph Foundation is organized as a directed fund under the Linux
Foundation. Premier and General Member organizations contribute a
yearly fee to become members. Associate members are educational
institutions or government organizations and are invited to join at no
cost.

For more information, see `https://ceph.com/foundation
<https://ceph.com/foundation>`_.


Members
=======

Diamond
-------

* `45Drives <https://45drives.com/>`_
* `Bloomberg <https://bloomberg.com>`_
* `IBM <https://ibm.com>`_

Platinum
--------

* `Clyso <https://www.clyso.com/en/>`_
* `Samsung Electronics <https://samsung.com/>`_

Premier
-------

* `OVH <https://www.ovh.com/>`_

Gold
----

* `42on <https://www.42on.com/>`_

Silver
------

* `Canonical <https://www.canonical.com/>`_
* `CloudFerro <https://cloudferro.com/>`_
* `croit <http://www.croit.io/>`_
* `ISS <http://iss-integration.com/>`_
* `Intel <http://www.intel.com/>`_
* `OSNexus <https://osnexus.com/>`_

Associate
---------

* `Boston University <http://www.bu.com/>`_
* `Center for Research in Open Source Systems (CROSS) <http://cross.ucsc.edu/>`_
* `CERN <https://home.cern/>`_
* `FASRC <https://www.rc.fas.harvard.edu/>`_
* `grnet <https://grnet.gr/>`_
* `Monash University <http://www.monash.edu/>`_
* `NRF SARAO <http://www.ska.ac.za/about/sarao/>`_
* `Open Infrastructure Foundation <http://openinfra.dev>`_
* `Science & Technology Facilities Councel (STFC) <https://stfc.ukri.org/>`_
* `SWITCH <https://switch.ch/>`_
* `University of Michigan <http://www.osris.org/>`_

Governing Board
===============

The Governing Board consists of all Premier members, a representative
for the General members, a representative for the Associate members,
and a representative from the Ceph Leadership Team (the technical
governance body). The board is responsible for:

* Building and approving an annual budget for spending in support of
  the Ceph project
* Establishing ad-hoc committees to address current needs of the
  project
* Coordinating outreach or marketing
* Meeting regularly to discuss Foundation activities, the status of
  the Ceph project, and overall project strategy
* Voting on any decisions or matters before the board

The Ceph Foundation board is not responsible for and does not have any
direct control over the technical governance of Ceph. Development and
engineering activities are managed through traditional open source
processes and are overseen by the :ref:`csc`. For more
information see :ref:`governance`.

Members
-------

* Brett Kelly (45Drives)
* Carlos Maltzahn (UCSC) - Associate member representative
* Dan van der Ster (Clyso) - Ceph Council representative
* Joachim Kraftmayer (Clyso)
* Josh Durgin (IBM) - Ceph Council representative
* Matthew Leonard (Bloomberg)
* Mike Perez (IBM) - Ceph community manager
* Neha Ojha (IBM) - Ceph Council Representative
* Steven Umbehocker (OSNexus) - General member representative
* Pawel Sadowski (OVH)
* Sungmin Lee (Samsung Electronics)
* Vincent Hsu (IBM)

Joining
=======

For information about joining the Ceph Foundation, please contact
membership@linuxfoundation.org.

Commit message:

doc: Update foundation.rst
Adds link to charter.

Signed-off-by: Benjamin Sternthal <ben@devpatch.com>

doc/foundation.rst, after:


.. _foundation:

=================
 Ceph Foundation
=================

The Ceph Foundation exists to enable industry members to collaborate
and pool resources to support the Ceph project community. The
Foundation provides an open, collaborative, and neutral home for
project stakeholders to coordinate their development and community
investments in the Ceph ecosystem.

The Ceph Foundation is organized as a directed fund under the Linux
Foundation. Premier and General Member organizations contribute a
yearly fee to become members. Associate members are educational
institutions or government organizations and are invited to join at no
cost. Read and download the `Ceph Foundation Charter <https://charter.cephfoundation.org>`_.

For more information, see `https://ceph.com/foundation
<https://ceph.com/foundation>`_.


Members
=======

Diamond
-------

* `45Drives <https://45drives.com/>`_
* `Bloomberg <https://bloomberg.com>`_
* `IBM <https://ibm.com>`_

Platinum
--------

* `Clyso <https://www.clyso.com/en/>`_
* `Samsung Electronics <https://samsung.com/>`_

Premier
-------

* `OVH <https://www.ovh.com/>`_

Gold
----

* `42on <https://www.42on.com/>`_

Silver
------

* `Canonical <https://www.canonical.com/>`_
* `CloudFerro <https://cloudferro.com/>`_
* `croit <http://www.croit.io/>`_
* `ISS <http://iss-integration.com/>`_
* `Intel <http://www.intel.com/>`_
* `OSNexus <https://osnexus.com/>`_

Associate
---------

* `Boston University <http://www.bu.com/>`_
* `Center for Research in Open Source Systems (CROSS) <http://cross.ucsc.edu/>`_
* `CERN <https://home.cern/>`_
* `FASRC <https://www.rc.fas.harvard.edu/>`_
* `grnet <https://grnet.gr/>`_
* `Monash University <http://www.monash.edu/>`_
* `NRF SARAO <http://www.ska.ac.za/about/sarao/>`_
* `Open Infrastructure Foundation <http://openinfra.dev>`_
* `Science & Technology Facilities Councel (STFC) <https://stfc.ukri.org/>`_
* `SWITCH <https://switch.ch/>`_
* `University of Michigan <http://www.osris.org/>`_

Governing Board
===============

The Governing Board consists of all Premier members, a representative
for the General members, a representative for the Associate members,
and a representative from the Ceph Leadership Team (the technical
governance body). The board is responsible for:

* Building and approving an annual budget for spending in support of
  the Ceph project
* Establishing ad-hoc committees to address current needs of the
  project
* Coordinating outreach or marketing
* Meeting regularly to discuss Foundation activities, the status of
  the Ceph project, and overall project strategy
* Voting on any decisions or matters before the board

The Ceph Foundation board is not responsible for and does not have any
direct control over the technical governance of Ceph. Development and
engineering activities are managed through traditional open source
processes and are overseen by the :ref:`csc`. For more
information see :ref:`governance`.

Members
-------

* Brett Kelly (45Drives)
* Carlos Maltzahn (UCSC) - Associate member representative
* Dan van der Ster (Clyso) - Ceph Council representative
* Joachim Kraftmayer (Clyso)
* Josh Durgin (IBM) - Ceph Council representative
* Matthew Leonard (Bloomberg)
* Mike Perez (IBM) - Ceph community manager
* Neha Ojha (IBM) - Ceph Council Representative
* Steven Umbehocker (OSNexus) - General member representative
* Pawel Sadowski (OVH)
* Sungmin Lee (Samsung Electronics)
* Vincent Hsu (IBM)

Joining
=======

For information about joining the Ceph Foundation, please contact
membership@linuxfoundation.org.
