doc/radosgw/bucket_logging.rst, before:

====================
Bucket Logging
====================

.. versionadded:: T

.. contents::

Bucket logging provide a mechanism for logging all access to a bucket. The
log data can be used to monitor bucket activity, detect unauthorized
access, get insights into the bucket usage and use the logs as a journal for bucket changes.
The log records are stored in objects in a separate bucket and can be analyzed later.
Logging configuration is done at the bucket level and can be enabled or disabled at any time.
The log bucket can accumulate logs from multiple buckets. The configured "prefix"
may be used to distinguish between logs from different buckets.


.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1

Logging Reliability
-------------------
Records are written to the log bucket before the bucket operation is completed. This means that if the logging
action fails, the operation may fail as well. This means that the log records are guaranteed to be
written if the operation is successful.
An exception to the above are "read" log records and "delete" log records. If writing these log records fail, the operation
continues and may still be successful.
Note that it may happen that the log records were successfully written, but the bucket operation failed, since the logs are written
before such a failure, there will be no indication for that in the log records.
For performance reasons, even though the log records are written to persistent storage, the log object will
appear in the log bucket only after some configurable amount of time (or if the maximum object size of 128MB is reached).
Adding a log object to the lock bucket is done "lazily", meaning, that if no more records are written to the object, it may
remain outside of the log bucket even after the configured time has passed.


Bucket Logging REST API
-----------------------

Detailed under: `Bucket Operations`_.


Log Objects Key Format
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Simple
``````
has the following format:

::

  <prefix><year-month-day-hour-minute-second>-<16 bytes unique-id>

For example:

::

  fish/2024-08-06-09-40-09-TI9ROKN05DD4HPQF

Partitioned
```````````
has the following format:

::

  <prefix><bucket owner>/<source region>/<bucket name>/<year>/<month>/<day>/<year-month-day-hour-minute-second>-<16 bytes unique-id>

For example:

::

  fish/testid//all-log/2024/08/06/2024-08-06-10-11-18-1HMU3UMWOJKNQJ0X

Log Records
~~~~~~~~~~~

The log records are space separated string columns and have the following possible formats:

Short
`````
minimum amount of data used for journaling bucket changes (this is a Ceph extension).

  - bucket owner (or dash if empty)
  - bucket name (or dash if empty)
  - time in the following format: ``[day/month/year:hour:minute:second timezone]``
  - object key (or dash if empty)
  - operation in the following format: ``REST.<HTTP method>.<RGW OP name>``
  - eTag

For example:

::

  testid fish [06/Aug/2024:09:40:09 +0000] myfile REST.PUT.put_obj 4cfdfc1f58e762d3e116787cb92fac60
  testid fish [06/Aug/2024:09:40:09 +0000] myfile REST.GET.get_obj 4cfdfc1f58e762d3e116787cb92fac60
  testid fish [06/Aug/2024:09:40:28 +0000] myfile REST.DELETE.delete_obj 4cfdfc1f58e762d3e116787cb92fac60


Standard
````````
based on `AWS Logging Record Format`_.
  
  - bucket owner (or dash if empty)
  - bucket name (or dash if empty)
  - time
  - remote IP (not supported, always a dash)
  - user or account (or dash if empty)
  - request ID
  - operation in the following format: ``REST.<HTTP method>.<RGW OP name>``
  - object key (or dash if empty)
  - request URI in the following format: ``"<HTTP method> <URI> <HTTP version>"``
  - HTTP status (or dash if zero). Note that in most cases log is written before the status is known
  - error code (or dash if empty)
  - bytes sent (or dash if zero)
  - object size (or dash if zero)
  - total time (not supported, always a dash)
  - turnaround time (not supported, always a dash)
  - referrer (not supported, always a dash)
  - user agent (not supported, always a dash)
  - version id (or dash if empty)
  - host id taken from "x-amz-id-2" (or dash if empty)
  - signature version (not supported, always a dash)
  - cipher suite (not supported, always a dash)
  - authentication type (not supported, always a dash)
  - host header (or dash if empty)
  - TLS version (not supported, always a dash)
  - access point ARN (not supported, always a dash)
  - ACL flag ("Yes" if the request is an ACL operation, otherwise dash)

For example:

::

  testid fish [06/Aug/2024:09:30:25 +0000] - testid 9e369a15-5f43-4f07-b638-de920b22f91b.4179.15085270386962380710 REST.PUT.put_obj myfile "PUT /fish/myfile HTTP/1.1" 200 - 512 512 - - - - - - - - - localhost - -
  testid fish [06/Aug/2024:09:30:51 +0000] - testid 9e369a15-5f43-4f07-b638-de920b22f91b.4179.7046073853138417766 REST.GET.get_obj myfile "GET /fish/myfile HTTP/1.1" 200 - - 512 - - - - - - - - - localhost - -
  testid fish [06/Aug/2024:09:30:56 +0000] - testid 9e369a15-5f43-4f07-b638-de920b22f91b.4179.10723158448701085570 REST.DELETE.delete_obj myfile "DELETE /fish/myfile1 HTTP/1.1" 200 - - 512 - - - - - - - - - localhost - -


.. _AWS Logging Record Format: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/userguide/LogFormat.html
.. _Bucket Operations: ../s3/bucketops

Commit message:

rgw/logging: implement standard mode as the default
Signed-off-by: Yuval Lifshitz <ylifshit@ibm.com>

doc/radosgw/bucket_logging.rst, after:

====================
Bucket Logging
====================

.. versionadded:: T

.. contents::

Bucket logging provide a mechanism for logging all access to a bucket. The
log data can be used to monitor bucket activity, detect unauthorized
access, get insights into the bucket usage and use the logs as a journal for bucket changes.
The log records are stored in objects in a separate bucket and can be analyzed later.
Logging configuration is done at the bucket level and can be enabled or disabled at any time.
The log bucket can accumulate logs from multiple buckets. The configured "prefix"
may be used to distinguish between logs from different buckets.


.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1

Logging Reliability
-------------------
For performance reasons, even though the log records are written to persistent storage, the log object will
appear in the log bucket only after some configurable amount of time (or if the maximum object size of 128MB is reached).
Adding a log object to the lock bucket is done "lazily", meaning, that if no more records are written to the object, it may
remain outside of the log bucket even after the configured time has passed.

Standard
````````
If logging type is set to "Standard" (the default) the log records are written to the log bucket after the bucket operation is completed.
This means that there are the logging operation may fail, with no indication to he client.

Journal
``````
If logging type is set to "Journal", the records are written to the log bucket before the bucket operation is completed. 
This means that if the logging action fails, the operation will not be executed, and an error will be returned to the client.
An exception to the above are "multi/delete" log records: if writing these log records fail, the operation continues and may still be successful.
Note that it may happen that the log records were successfully written, but the bucket operation failed, since the logs are written
before such a failure, there will be no indication for that in the log records. 


Bucket Logging REST API
-----------------------

Detailed under: `Bucket Operations`_.


Log Objects Key Format
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Simple
``````
has the following format:

::

  <prefix><year-month-day-hour-minute-second>-<16 bytes unique-id>

For example:

::

  fish/2024-08-06-09-40-09-TI9ROKN05DD4HPQF

Partitioned
```````````
has the following format:

::

  <prefix><bucket owner>/<source region>/<bucket name>/<year>/<month>/<day>/<year-month-day-hour-minute-second>-<16 bytes unique-id>

For example:

::

  fish/testid//all-log/2024/08/06/2024-08-06-10-11-18-1HMU3UMWOJKNQJ0X

Log Records
~~~~~~~~~~~

The log records are space separated string columns and have the following possible formats:

Short
`````
minimum amount of data used for journaling bucket changes (this is a Ceph extension).

  - bucket owner (or dash if empty)
  - bucket name (or dash if empty)
  - time in the following format: ``[day/month/year:hour:minute:second timezone]``
  - object key (or dash if empty)
  - operation in the following format: ``REST.<HTTP method>.<RGW OP name>``
  - eTag

For example:

::

  testid fish [06/Aug/2024:09:40:09 +0000] myfile REST.PUT.put_obj 4cfdfc1f58e762d3e116787cb92fac60
  testid fish [06/Aug/2024:09:40:09 +0000] myfile REST.GET.get_obj 4cfdfc1f58e762d3e116787cb92fac60
  testid fish [06/Aug/2024:09:40:28 +0000] myfile REST.DELETE.delete_obj 4cfdfc1f58e762d3e116787cb92fac60


Standard
````````
based on `AWS Logging Record Format`_.
  
  - bucket owner (or dash if empty)
  - bucket name (or dash if empty)
  - time
  - remote IP (not supported, always a dash)
  - user or account (or dash if empty)
  - request ID
  - operation in the following format: ``REST.<HTTP method>.<RGW OP name>``
  - object key (or dash if empty)
  - request URI in the following format: ``"<HTTP method> <URI> <HTTP version>"``
  - HTTP status (or dash if zero). Note that in most cases log is written before the status is known
  - error code (or dash if empty)
  - bytes sent (or dash if zero)
  - object size (or dash if zero)
  - total time (not supported, always a dash)
  - turnaround time (not supported, always a dash)
  - referrer (not supported, always a dash)
  - user agent (not supported, always a dash)
  - version id (or dash if empty)
  - host id taken from "x-amz-id-2" (or dash if empty)
  - signature version (not supported, always a dash)
  - cipher suite (not supported, always a dash)
  - authentication type (not supported, always a dash)
  - host header (or dash if empty)
  - TLS version (not supported, always a dash)
  - access point ARN (not supported, always a dash)
  - ACL flag ("Yes" if the request is an ACL operation, otherwise dash)

For example:

::

  testid fish [06/Aug/2024:09:30:25 +0000] - testid 9e369a15-5f43-4f07-b638-de920b22f91b.4179.15085270386962380710 REST.PUT.put_obj myfile "PUT /fish/myfile HTTP/1.1" 200 - 512 512 - - - - - - - - - localhost - -
  testid fish [06/Aug/2024:09:30:51 +0000] - testid 9e369a15-5f43-4f07-b638-de920b22f91b.4179.7046073853138417766 REST.GET.get_obj myfile "GET /fish/myfile HTTP/1.1" 200 - - 512 - - - - - - - - - localhost - -
  testid fish [06/Aug/2024:09:30:56 +0000] - testid 9e369a15-5f43-4f07-b638-de920b22f91b.4179.10723158448701085570 REST.DELETE.delete_obj myfile "DELETE /fish/myfile1 HTTP/1.1" 200 - - 512 - - - - - - - - - localhost - -


.. _AWS Logging Record Format: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/userguide/LogFormat.html
.. _Bucket Operations: ../s3/bucketops
