doc/radosgw/keystone.rst, before:

=====================================
 Integrating with OpenStack Keystone
=====================================

It is possible to integrate the Ceph Object Gateway with Keystone, the OpenStack
identity service. This sets up the gateway to accept Keystone as the users
authority. A user that Keystone authorizes to access the gateway will also be
automatically created on the Ceph Object Gateway (if didn't exist beforehand). A
token that Keystone validates will be considered as valid by the gateway.

The following configuration options are available for Keystone integration::

	[client.radosgw.gateway]
	rgw keystone api version = {keystone api version}
	rgw keystone url = {keystone server url:keystone server admin port}
	rgw keystone admin token = {keystone admin token}
	rgw keystone accepted roles = {accepted user roles}
	rgw keystone token cache size = {number of tokens to cache}
	rgw keystone revocation interval = {number of seconds before checking revoked tickets}
	rgw keystone implicit tenants = {true for private tenant for each new user}
	rgw s3 auth use keystone = true
	nss db path = {path to nss db}

It is also possible to configure a Keystone service tenant, user & password for
keystone (for v2.0 version of the OpenStack Identity API), similar to the way
OpenStack services tend to be configured, this avoids the need for setting the
shared secret ``rgw keystone admin token`` in the configuration file, which is
recommended to be disabled in production environments. The service tenant
credentials should have admin privileges, for more details refer the `Openstack
keystone documentation`_, which explains the process in detail. The requisite
configuration options for are::

   rgw keystone admin user = {keystone service tenant user name}
   rgw keystone admin password = {keystone service tenant user password}
   rgw keystone admin tenant = {keystone service tenant name}


A Ceph Object Gateway user is mapped into a Keystone ``tenant``. A Keystone user
has different roles assigned to it on possibly more than a single tenant. When
the Ceph Object Gateway gets the ticket, it looks at the tenant, and the user
roles that are assigned to that ticket, and accepts/rejects the request
according to the ``rgw keystone accepted roles`` configurable.

For a v3 version of the OpenStack Identity API you should replace
``rgw keystone admin tenant`` with::

   rgw keystone admin domain = {keystone admin domain name}
   rgw keystone admin project = {keystone admin project name}


Prior to Kilo
-------------

Keystone itself needs to be configured to point to the Ceph Object Gateway as an
object-storage endpoint::

    keystone service-create --name swift --type object-store
    keystone endpoint-create --service-id <id> --publicurl http://radosgw.example.com/swift/v1 \
            --internalurl http://radosgw.example.com/swift/v1 --adminurl http://radosgw.example.com/swift/v1


As of Kilo
----------

Keystone itself needs to be configured to point to the Ceph Object Gateway as an
object-storage endpoint::

  openstack service create --name=swift \
                           --description="Swift Service" \
                           object-store
  +-------------+----------------------------------+
  | Field       | Value                            |
  +-------------+----------------------------------+
  | description | Swift Service                    |
  | enabled     | True                             |
  | id          | 37c4c0e79571404cb4644201a4a6e5ee |
  | name        | swift                            |
  | type        | object-store                     |
  +-------------+----------------------------------+

  openstack endpoint create --region RegionOne \
       --publicurl   "http://radosgw.example.com:8080/swift/v1" \
       --adminurl    "http://radosgw.example.com:8080/swift/v1" \
       --internalurl "http://radosgw.example.com:8080/swift/v1" \
       swift
  +--------------+------------------------------------------+
  | Field        | Value                                    |
  +--------------+------------------------------------------+
  | adminurl     | http://radosgw.example.com:8080/swift/v1 |
  | id           | e4249d2b60e44743a67b5e5b38c18dd3         |
  | internalurl  | http://radosgw.example.com:8080/swift/v1 |
  | publicurl    | http://radosgw.example.com:8080/swift/v1 |
  | region       | RegionOne                                |
  | service_id   | 37c4c0e79571404cb4644201a4a6e5ee         |
  | service_name | swift                                    |
  | service_type | object-store                             |
  +--------------+------------------------------------------+

  $ openstack endpoint show object-store
  +--------------+------------------------------------------+
  | Field        | Value                                    |
  +--------------+------------------------------------------+
  | adminurl     | http://radosgw.example.com:8080/swift/v1 |
  | enabled      | True                                     |
  | id           | e4249d2b60e44743a67b5e5b38c18dd3         |
  | internalurl  | http://radosgw.example.com:8080/swift/v1 |
  | publicurl    | http://radosgw.example.com:8080/swift/v1 |
  | region       | RegionOne                                |
  | service_id   | 37c4c0e79571404cb4644201a4a6e5ee         |
  | service_name | swift                                    |
  | service_type | object-store                             |
  +--------------+------------------------------------------+


The keystone URL is the Keystone admin RESTful API URL. The admin token is the
token that is configured internally in Keystone for admin requests.

The Ceph Object Gateway will query Keystone periodically for a list of revoked
tokens. These requests are encoded and signed. Also, Keystone may be configured
to provide self-signed tokens, which are also encoded and signed. The gateway
needs to be able to decode and verify these signed messages, and the process
requires that the gateway be set up appropriately. Currently, the Ceph Object
Gateway will only be able to perform the procedure if it was compiled with
``--with-nss``. Configuring the Ceph Object Gateway to work with Keystone also
requires converting the OpenSSL certificates that Keystone uses for creating the
requests to the nss db format, for example::

	mkdir /var/ceph/nss

	openssl x509 -in /etc/keystone/ssl/certs/ca.pem -pubkey | \
		certutil -d /var/ceph/nss -A -n ca -t "TCu,Cu,Tuw"
	openssl x509 -in /etc/keystone/ssl/certs/signing_cert.pem -pubkey | \
		certutil -A -d /var/ceph/nss -n signing_cert -t "P,P,P"



Openstack keystone may also be terminated with a self signed ssl certificate, in
order for radosgw to interact with keystone in such a case, you could either
install keystone's ssl certificate in the node running radosgw. Alternatively
radosgw could be made to not verify the ssl certificate at all (similar to
openstack clients with a ``--insecure`` switch) by setting the value of the
configurable ``rgw keystone verify ssl`` to false.


.. _Openstack keystone documentation: http://docs.openstack.org/developer/keystone/configuringservices.html#setting-up-projects-users-and-roles

Commit message:

rgw: making implicit_tenants backwards compatible.
In jewel, "rgw keystone implicit tenants" only applied to swift. As of
luminous), this option applies to s3 also.
Sites that used this feature with jewel now have outstanding data that
depends on the old behavior.

The fix here is to expand "rgw keystone implicit tenants" so that it
can be set to any of "none", "all", "s3" or "swift" (also 0=false=none,
1=true=all).  When set to "s3" or "swift", the actual id lookup
is also partitioned.

Formerly "rgw keystone implicit tenants" was a legacy opt.
This change converts it to the new style of option,
including support for dynamically changing it.

Fixes: http://tracker.ceph.com/issues/24348

Signed-off-by: Marcus Watts <mwatts@redhat.com>
(cherry picked from commit a28a38f6e91da3abe59c34fad0e059eeaf29a65f)
(cherry picked from commit d2bdea8e7bc8eae64e4b72f581e424a9a6871aed)

Conflicts:
  - forward port from luminous was easier than backport from master

doc/radosgw/keystone.rst, after:

=====================================
 Integrating with OpenStack Keystone
=====================================

It is possible to integrate the Ceph Object Gateway with Keystone, the OpenStack
identity service. This sets up the gateway to accept Keystone as the users
authority. A user that Keystone authorizes to access the gateway will also be
automatically created on the Ceph Object Gateway (if didn't exist beforehand). A
token that Keystone validates will be considered as valid by the gateway.

The following configuration options are available for Keystone integration::

	[client.radosgw.gateway]
	rgw keystone api version = {keystone api version}
	rgw keystone url = {keystone server url:keystone server admin port}
	rgw keystone admin token = {keystone admin token}
	rgw keystone accepted roles = {accepted user roles}
	rgw keystone token cache size = {number of tokens to cache}
	rgw keystone revocation interval = {number of seconds before checking revoked tickets}
	rgw keystone implicit tenants = {true for private tenant for each new user}
	rgw s3 auth use keystone = true
	nss db path = {path to nss db}

It is also possible to configure a Keystone service tenant, user & password for
keystone (for v2.0 version of the OpenStack Identity API), similar to the way
OpenStack services tend to be configured, this avoids the need for setting the
shared secret ``rgw keystone admin token`` in the configuration file, which is
recommended to be disabled in production environments. The service tenant
credentials should have admin privileges, for more details refer the `Openstack
keystone documentation`_, which explains the process in detail. The requisite
configuration options for are::

   rgw keystone admin user = {keystone service tenant user name}
   rgw keystone admin password = {keystone service tenant user password}
   rgw keystone admin tenant = {keystone service tenant name}


A Ceph Object Gateway user is mapped into a Keystone ``tenant``. A Keystone user
has different roles assigned to it on possibly more than a single tenant. When
the Ceph Object Gateway gets the ticket, it looks at the tenant, and the user
roles that are assigned to that ticket, and accepts/rejects the request
according to the ``rgw keystone accepted roles`` configurable.

For a v3 version of the OpenStack Identity API you should replace
``rgw keystone admin tenant`` with::

   rgw keystone admin domain = {keystone admin domain name}
   rgw keystone admin project = {keystone admin project name}

For compatibility with previous versions of ceph, it is also
possible to set ``rgw keystone implicit tenants`` to either
``s3`` or ``swift``.  This has the effect of splitting
the identity space such that the indicated protocol will
only use implicit tenants, and the other protocol will
never use implicit tenants.  Some older versions of ceph
only supported implicit tenants with swift.

Prior to Kilo
-------------

Keystone itself needs to be configured to point to the Ceph Object Gateway as an
object-storage endpoint::

    keystone service-create --name swift --type object-store
    keystone endpoint-create --service-id <id> --publicurl http://radosgw.example.com/swift/v1 \
            --internalurl http://radosgw.example.com/swift/v1 --adminurl http://radosgw.example.com/swift/v1


As of Kilo
----------

Keystone itself needs to be configured to point to the Ceph Object Gateway as an
object-storage endpoint::

  openstack service create --name=swift \
                           --description="Swift Service" \
                           object-store
  +-------------+----------------------------------+
  | Field       | Value                            |
  +-------------+----------------------------------+
  | description | Swift Service                    |
  | enabled     | True                             |
  | id          | 37c4c0e79571404cb4644201a4a6e5ee |
  | name        | swift                            |
  | type        | object-store                     |
  +-------------+----------------------------------+

  openstack endpoint create --region RegionOne \
       --publicurl   "http://radosgw.example.com:8080/swift/v1" \
       --adminurl    "http://radosgw.example.com:8080/swift/v1" \
       --internalurl "http://radosgw.example.com:8080/swift/v1" \
       swift
  +--------------+------------------------------------------+
  | Field        | Value                                    |
  +--------------+------------------------------------------+
  | adminurl     | http://radosgw.example.com:8080/swift/v1 |
  | id           | e4249d2b60e44743a67b5e5b38c18dd3         |
  | internalurl  | http://radosgw.example.com:8080/swift/v1 |
  | publicurl    | http://radosgw.example.com:8080/swift/v1 |
  | region       | RegionOne                                |
  | service_id   | 37c4c0e79571404cb4644201a4a6e5ee         |
  | service_name | swift                                    |
  | service_type | object-store                             |
  +--------------+------------------------------------------+

  $ openstack endpoint show object-store
  +--------------+------------------------------------------+
  | Field        | Value                                    |
  +--------------+------------------------------------------+
  | adminurl     | http://radosgw.example.com:8080/swift/v1 |
  | enabled      | True                                     |
  | id           | e4249d2b60e44743a67b5e5b38c18dd3         |
  | internalurl  | http://radosgw.example.com:8080/swift/v1 |
  | publicurl    | http://radosgw.example.com:8080/swift/v1 |
  | region       | RegionOne                                |
  | service_id   | 37c4c0e79571404cb4644201a4a6e5ee         |
  | service_name | swift                                    |
  | service_type | object-store                             |
  +--------------+------------------------------------------+


The keystone URL is the Keystone admin RESTful API URL. The admin token is the
token that is configured internally in Keystone for admin requests.

The Ceph Object Gateway will query Keystone periodically for a list of revoked
tokens. These requests are encoded and signed. Also, Keystone may be configured
to provide self-signed tokens, which are also encoded and signed. The gateway
needs to be able to decode and verify these signed messages, and the process
requires that the gateway be set up appropriately. Currently, the Ceph Object
Gateway will only be able to perform the procedure if it was compiled with
``--with-nss``. Configuring the Ceph Object Gateway to work with Keystone also
requires converting the OpenSSL certificates that Keystone uses for creating the
requests to the nss db format, for example::

	mkdir /var/ceph/nss

	openssl x509 -in /etc/keystone/ssl/certs/ca.pem -pubkey | \
		certutil -d /var/ceph/nss -A -n ca -t "TCu,Cu,Tuw"
	openssl x509 -in /etc/keystone/ssl/certs/signing_cert.pem -pubkey | \
		certutil -A -d /var/ceph/nss -n signing_cert -t "P,P,P"



Openstack keystone may also be terminated with a self signed ssl certificate, in
order for radosgw to interact with keystone in such a case, you could either
install keystone's ssl certificate in the node running radosgw. Alternatively
radosgw could be made to not verify the ssl certificate at all (similar to
openstack clients with a ``--insecure`` switch) by setting the value of the
configurable ``rgw keystone verify ssl`` to false.


.. _Openstack keystone documentation: http://docs.openstack.org/developer/keystone/configuringservices.html#setting-up-projects-users-and-roles
