doc/radosgw/zone-features.rst, before:

=============
Zone Features
=============

Some features require support from all cooperating radosgws before they can be enabled. Each zone lists its ``supported_features``, and each zonegroup lists its ``enabled_features``. Before a feature can be enabled in the zonegroup, it must be supported by all of its zones.

On creation of new zones and zonegroups, all known features are supported and some features (see table below) are enabled by default. After upgrading an existing zone, however, new features must be enabled manually.

Supported Features
------------------

+-----------------------------------+---------+----------+
| Feature                           | Release | Default  |
+===================================+=========+==========+
| :ref:`feature_resharding`         | Reef    | Enabled  |
+-----------------------------------+---------+----------+
| :ref:`feature_compress_encrypted` | Reef    | Disabled |
+-----------------------------------+---------+----------+
| :ref:`feature_notification_v2`    | Squid   | Enabled  |
+-----------------------------------+---------+----------+

.. _feature_resharding:

resharding
~~~~~~~~~~

This feature allows buckets to be resharded in a multisite configuration
without interrupting the replication of their objects. When
``rgw_dynamic_resharding`` is enabled, it runs on each zone independently, and
zones may choose different shard counts for the same bucket. When buckets are
resharded manually with ``radosgw-admin bucket reshard``, only that zone's
bucket is modified. A zone feature should only be marked as supported after all
of its RGWs and OSDs have upgraded.

.. note:: Dynamic resharding is not supported in multisite deployments prior to
   the Reef release.


.. _feature_compress_encrypted:

compress-encrypted
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This feature enables support for combining `Server-Side Encryption`_ and
`Compression`_ on the same object. Object data gets compressed before encryption.
Prior to Reef, multisite would not replicate such objects correctly, so all zones
must upgrade to Reef or later before enabling.

.. warning:: The compression ratio may leak information about the encrypted data,
   and allow attackers to distinguish whether two same-sized objects might contain
   the same data. Due to these security considerations, this feature is disabled
   by default.


.. _feature_notification_v2:

notification_v2
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This feature opts in to a new "v2" metadata format for bucket notifications and
topics. Unlike "v1", this format is supported by multisite replication and can
scale to many topics.

Once this feature is enabled on all zonegroups in the realm, a background process
will convert existing v1 topics and bucket notifications into their v2 format.


Commands
--------

Add support for a zone feature
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

On the cluster that contains the given zone:

.. prompt:: bash $

   radosgw-admin zone modify --rgw-zone={zone-name} --enable-feature={feature-name}
   radosgw-admin period update --commit

.. note:: The ``period update`` command only works if the zone belongs to a realm.
   Otherwise, all radosgws will need to restart before they notice the change.


Remove support for a zone feature
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

On the cluster that contains the given zone:

.. prompt:: bash $

   radosgw-admin zone modify --rgw-zone={zone-name} --disable-feature={feature-name}
   radosgw-admin period update --commit

Enable a zonegroup feature
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

On any cluster in the realm:

.. prompt:: bash $

   radosgw-admin zonegroup modify --rgw-zonegroup={zonegroup-name} --enable-feature={feature-name}
   radosgw-admin period update --commit

Disable a zonegroup feature
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

On any cluster in the realm:

.. prompt:: bash $

   radosgw-admin zonegroup modify --rgw-zonegroup={zonegroup-name} --disable-feature={feature-name}
   radosgw-admin period update --commit


.. _`Server-Side Encryption`: ../encryption
.. _`Compression`: ../compression

Commit message:

rgw: control full sync on bucket replication enable
Introduced a "skip-existing-object-replication-policy" feature,
allowing bucket replication to start incrementally for new changes
and objects, bypassing a full sync of existing objects. The feature
applies to both intra- and cross-zonegroup replication policies,
aligning with AWS behavior after the deprecation of their
ExistingObjectReplication option.

Fixes: https://tracker.ceph.com/issues/69159
Signed-off-by: Seena Fallah <seenafallah@gmail.com>

doc/radosgw/zone-features.rst, after:

=============
Zone Features
=============

Some features require support from all cooperating radosgws before they can be enabled. Each zone lists its ``supported_features``, and each zonegroup lists its ``enabled_features``. Before a feature can be enabled in the zonegroup, it must be supported by all of its zones.

On creation of new zones and zonegroups, all known features are supported and some features (see table below) are enabled by default. After upgrading an existing zone, however, new features must be enabled manually.

Supported Features
------------------

+--------------------------------------------------------+----------+----------+
| Feature                                                | Release  | Default  |
+========================================================+==========+==========+
| :ref:`feature_resharding`                              | Reef     | Enabled  |
+--------------------------------------------------------+----------+----------+
| :ref:`feature_compress_encrypted`                      | Reef     | Disabled |
+--------------------------------------------------------+----------+----------+
| :ref:`feature_notification_v2`                         | Squid    | Enabled  |
+--------------------------------------------------------+----------+----------+
| :ref:`feature_skip_existing_object_replication_policy` | Tentacle | Enabled  |
+--------------------------------------------------------+----------+----------+

.. _feature_resharding:

resharding
~~~~~~~~~~

This feature allows buckets to be resharded in a multisite configuration
without interrupting the replication of their objects. When
``rgw_dynamic_resharding`` is enabled, it runs on each zone independently, and
zones may choose different shard counts for the same bucket. When buckets are
resharded manually with ``radosgw-admin bucket reshard``, only that zone's
bucket is modified. A zone feature should only be marked as supported after all
of its RGWs and OSDs have upgraded.

.. note:: Dynamic resharding is not supported in multisite deployments prior to
   the Reef release.


.. _feature_compress_encrypted:

compress-encrypted
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This feature enables support for combining `Server-Side Encryption`_ and
`Compression`_ on the same object. Object data gets compressed before encryption.
Prior to Reef, multisite would not replicate such objects correctly, so all zones
must upgrade to Reef or later before enabling.

.. warning:: The compression ratio may leak information about the encrypted data,
   and allow attackers to distinguish whether two same-sized objects might contain
   the same data. Due to these security considerations, this feature is disabled
   by default.


.. _feature_notification_v2:

notification_v2
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This feature opts in to a new "v2" metadata format for bucket notifications and
topics. Unlike "v1", this format is supported by multisite replication and can
scale to many topics.

Once this feature is enabled on all zonegroups in the realm, a background process
will convert existing v1 topics and bucket notifications into their v2 format.


.. _feature_skip_existing_object_replication_policy:

skip-existing-object-replication-policy
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This feature enables bucket replication to start incrementally, applying only to
changes and new objects created after replication is enabled, rather than performing
a full sync of existing objects. This behavior applies to bucket replication policies
in general, whether they operate within the same zonegroup or across different zonegroups.

AWS has set this as the default behavior for bucket replication policies following the
deprecation of their ExistingObjectReplication feature. As a result, this feature is enabled
by default for new deployments but requires existing deployments to opt-in manually.

In cases where the source and destination buckets are the same, symmetry is enforced, and the
zonegroup feature is ignored, relying instead on whether a full sync is needed. If the source
and destination buckets differ, the zonegroup feature and full sync logic come into play.


Commands
--------

Add support for a zone feature
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

On the cluster that contains the given zone:

.. prompt:: bash $

   radosgw-admin zone modify --rgw-zone={zone-name} --enable-feature={feature-name}
   radosgw-admin period update --commit

.. note:: The ``period update`` command only works if the zone belongs to a realm.
   Otherwise, all radosgws will need to restart before they notice the change.


Remove support for a zone feature
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

On the cluster that contains the given zone:

.. prompt:: bash $

   radosgw-admin zone modify --rgw-zone={zone-name} --disable-feature={feature-name}
   radosgw-admin period update --commit

Enable a zonegroup feature
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

On any cluster in the realm:

.. prompt:: bash $

   radosgw-admin zonegroup modify --rgw-zonegroup={zonegroup-name} --enable-feature={feature-name}
   radosgw-admin period update --commit

Disable a zonegroup feature
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

On any cluster in the realm:

.. prompt:: bash $

   radosgw-admin zonegroup modify --rgw-zonegroup={zonegroup-name} --disable-feature={feature-name}
   radosgw-admin period update --commit


.. _`Server-Side Encryption`: ../encryption
.. _`Compression`: ../compression
