doc/rados/operations/erasure-code.rst, before:

.. _ecpool:

=============
 Erasure code
=============

A Ceph pool is associated to a type to sustain the loss of an OSD
(i.e. a disk since most of the time there is one OSD per disk). The
default choice when `creating a pool <../pools>`_ is *replicated*,
meaning every object is copied on multiple disks. The `Erasure Code
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Erasure_code>`_ pool type can be used
instead to save space.

Creating a sample erasure coded pool
------------------------------------

The simplest erasure coded pool is equivalent to `RAID5
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Standard_RAID_levels#RAID_5>`_ and
requires at least three hosts::

    $ ceph osd pool create ecpool erasure
    pool 'ecpool' created
    $ echo ABCDEFGHI | rados --pool ecpool put NYAN -
    $ rados --pool ecpool get NYAN -
    ABCDEFGHI

Erasure code profiles
---------------------

The default erasure code profile sustains the loss of a two OSDs. It
is equivalent to a replicated pool of size three but requires 2TB
instead of 3TB to store 1TB of data. The default profile can be
displayed with::

    $ ceph osd erasure-code-profile get default
    k=2
    m=2
    plugin=jerasure
    crush-failure-domain=host
    technique=reed_sol_van

Choosing the right profile is important because it cannot be modified
after the pool is created: a new pool with a different profile needs
to be created and all objects from the previous pool moved to the new.

The most important parameters of the profile are *K*, *M* and
*crush-failure-domain* because they define the storage overhead and
the data durability. For instance, if the desired architecture must
sustain the loss of two racks with a storage overhead of 67% overhead,
the following profile can be defined::

    $ ceph osd erasure-code-profile set myprofile \
       k=3 \
       m=2 \
       crush-failure-domain=rack
    $ ceph osd pool create ecpool erasure myprofile
    $ echo ABCDEFGHI | rados --pool ecpool put NYAN -
    $ rados --pool ecpool get NYAN -
    ABCDEFGHI

The *NYAN* object will be divided in three (*K=3*) and two additional
*chunks* will be created (*M=2*). The value of *M* defines how many
OSD can be lost simultaneously without losing any data. The
*crush-failure-domain=rack* will create a CRUSH rule that ensures
no two *chunks* are stored in the same rack.

.. ditaa::
                            +-------------------+
                       name |       NYAN        |
                            +-------------------+
                    content |     ABCDEFGHI     |
                            +--------+----------+
                                     |
                                     |
                                     v
                              +------+------+
              +---------------+ encode(3,2) +-----------+
              |               +--+--+---+---+           |
              |                  |  |   |               |
              |          +-------+  |   +-----+         |
              |          |          |         |         |
           +--v---+   +--v---+   +--v---+  +--v---+  +--v---+
     name  | NYAN |   | NYAN |   | NYAN |  | NYAN |  | NYAN |
           +------+   +------+   +------+  +------+  +------+
    shard  |  1   |   |  2   |   |  3   |  |  4   |  |  5   |
           +------+   +------+   +------+  +------+  +------+
  content  | ABC  |   | DEF  |   | GHI  |  | YXY  |  | QGC  |
           +--+---+   +--+---+   +--+---+  +--+---+  +--+---+
              |          |          |         |         |
              |          |          v         |         |
              |          |       +--+---+     |         |
              |          |       | OSD1 |     |         |
              |          |       +------+     |         |
              |          |                    |         |
              |          |       +------+     |         |
              |          +------>| OSD2 |     |         |
              |                  +------+     |         |
              |                               |         |
              |                  +------+     |         |
              |                  | OSD3 |<----+         |
              |                  +------+               |
              |                                         |
              |                  +------+               |
              |                  | OSD4 |<--------------+
              |                  +------+
              |
              |                  +------+
              +----------------->| OSD5 |
                                 +------+

 
More information can be found in the `erasure code profiles
<../erasure-code-profile>`_ documentation.


Erasure Coding with Overwrites
------------------------------

By default, erasure coded pools only work with uses like RGW that
perform full object writes and appends.

Since Luminous, partial writes for an erasure coded pool may be
enabled with a per-pool setting. This lets RBD and CephFS store their
data in an erasure coded pool::

    ceph osd pool set ec_pool allow_ec_overwrites true

This can only be enabled on a pool residing on bluestore OSDs, since
bluestore's checksumming is used to detect bitrot or other corruption
during deep-scrub. In addition to being unsafe, using filestore with
ec overwrites yields low performance compared to bluestore.

Erasure coded pools do not support omap, so to use them with RBD and
CephFS you must instruct them to store their data in an ec pool, and
their metadata in a replicated pool. For RBD, this means using the
erasure coded pool as the ``--data-pool`` during image creation::

    rbd create --size 1G --data-pool ec_pool replicated_pool/image_name

For CephFS, an erasure coded pool can be set as the default data pool during
file system creation or via `file layouts <../../../cephfs/file-layouts>`_.


Erasure coded pool and cache tiering
------------------------------------

Erasure coded pools require more resources than replicated pools and
lack some functionalities such as omap. To overcome these
limitations, one can set up a `cache tier <../cache-tiering>`_
before the erasure coded pool.

For instance, if the pool *hot-storage* is made of fast storage::

    $ ceph osd tier add ecpool hot-storage
    $ ceph osd tier cache-mode hot-storage writeback
    $ ceph osd tier set-overlay ecpool hot-storage

will place the *hot-storage* pool as tier of *ecpool* in *writeback*
mode so that every write and read to the *ecpool* are actually using
the *hot-storage* and benefit from its flexibility and speed.

More information can be found in the `cache tiering
<../cache-tiering>`_ documentation.

Erasure coded pool recovery
---------------------------
If an erasure coded pool loses some shards, it must recover them from the others.
This generally involves reading from the remaining shards, reconstructing the data, and
writing it to the new peer.
In Octopus, erasure coded pools can recover as long as there are at least *K* shards
available. (With fewer than *K* shards, you have actually lost data!)

Prior to Octopus, erasure coded pools required at least *min_size* shards to be
available, even if *min_size* is greater than *K*. (We generally recommend min_size
be *K+2* or more to prevent loss of writes and data.)
This conservative decision was made out of an abundance of caution when designing the new pool
mode but also meant pools with lost OSDs but no data loss were unable to recover and go active
without manual intervention to change the *min_size*.

Glossary
--------

*chunk*
   when the encoding function is called, it returns chunks of the same
   size. Data chunks which can be concatenated to reconstruct the original
   object and coding chunks which can be used to rebuild a lost chunk.

*K*
   the number of data *chunks*, i.e. the number of *chunks* in which the
   original object is divided. For instance if *K* = 2 a 10KB object
   will be divided into *K* objects of 5KB each.

*M*
   the number of coding *chunks*, i.e. the number of additional *chunks*
   computed by the encoding functions. If there are 2 coding *chunks*,
   it means 2 OSDs can be out without losing data.


Table of content
----------------

.. toctree::
	:maxdepth: 1

	erasure-code-profile
	erasure-code-jerasure
	erasure-code-isa
	erasure-code-lrc
	erasure-code-shec
	erasure-code-clay

Commit message:

doc/rados: Update erasure code profile guidance
Add a plain language and a mathematical explanation of K and M and their relation to overhead.
Add an explanation that the minimum pool size is K+M of the failure domain. Add guidance to
include one more failure domain than the minimum to remain healthy under partial failure (K+M+1).

Signed-off-by: Kane York <kanepyork@gmail.com>

doc/rados/operations/erasure-code.rst, after:

.. _ecpool:

=============
 Erasure code
=============

A Ceph pool is associated to a type to sustain the loss of an OSD
(i.e. a disk since most of the time there is one OSD per disk). The
default choice when `creating a pool <../pools>`_ is *replicated*,
meaning every object is copied on multiple disks. The `Erasure Code
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Erasure_code>`_ pool type can be used
instead to save space.

Creating a sample erasure coded pool
------------------------------------

The simplest erasure coded pool is equivalent to `RAID5
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Standard_RAID_levels#RAID_5>`_ and
requires at least three hosts::

    $ ceph osd pool create ecpool erasure
    pool 'ecpool' created
    $ echo ABCDEFGHI | rados --pool ecpool put NYAN -
    $ rados --pool ecpool get NYAN -
    ABCDEFGHI

Erasure code profiles
---------------------

The default erasure code profile sustains the loss of two hosts.  It
is equivalent in resilience to a replicated pool of size three that
requires just 2TB instead of 3TB to store 1TB of data, but requires 4
hosts instead of 3 to be healthy. The default profile can be displayed
with::

    $ ceph osd erasure-code-profile get default
    k=2
    m=2
    plugin=jerasure
    crush-failure-domain=host
    technique=reed_sol_van

Choosing the right profile is important because it cannot be modified
after the pool is created: a new pool with a different profile needs
to be created and all objects from the previous pool moved to the new.

The most important parameters of the profile are *K*, *M* and
*crush-failure-domain* because they define the storage overhead, the
data durability, and the minimum hardware requirements.

When selecting a profile, remember these guidelines: up to *m* of the
*crush-failure-domains* can fail, the pool will have a storage
overhead of *(m+k)/k*, and *m+k* of the *crush-failure-domains* must
be up for the pool to be HEALTH_OK.

For another example, suppose the desired architecture will begin with
at least six racks, must sustain the loss of two racks, and the
acceptable overhead range allows a 67% storage penalty and a 5x
network amplification. The following profile can be defined::

    $ ceph osd erasure-code-profile set myprofile \
       k=3 \
       m=2 \
       crush-failure-domain=rack
    $ ceph osd pool create ecpool erasure myprofile
    $ echo ABCDEFGHI | rados --pool ecpool put NYAN -
    $ rados --pool ecpool get NYAN -
    ABCDEFGHI

The *NYAN* object will be divided in three (*K=3*) and two additional
*chunks* will be created (*M=2*). The value of *M* defines how many
OSD can be lost simultaneously without losing any data. The
*crush-failure-domain=rack* will create a CRUSH rule that ensures
no two *chunks* are stored in the same rack.

.. ditaa::
                            +-------------------+
                       name |       NYAN        |
                            +-------------------+
                    content |     ABCDEFGHI     |
                            +--------+----------+
                                     |
                                     |
                                     v
                              +------+------+
              +---------------+ encode(3,2) +-----------+
              |               +--+--+---+---+           |
              |                  |  |   |               |
              |          +-------+  |   +-----+         |
              |          |          |         |         |
           +--v---+   +--v---+   +--v---+  +--v---+  +--v---+
     name  | NYAN |   | NYAN |   | NYAN |  | NYAN |  | NYAN |
           +------+   +------+   +------+  +------+  +------+
    shard  |  1   |   |  2   |   |  3   |  |  4   |  |  5   |
           +------+   +------+   +------+  +------+  +------+
  content  | ABC  |   | DEF  |   | GHI  |  | YXY  |  | QGC  |
           +--+---+   +--+---+   +--+---+  +--+---+  +--+---+
              |          |          |         |         |
              |          |          v         |         |
              |          |       +--+---+     |         |
              |          |       | OSD1 |     |         |
              |          |       +------+     |         |
              |          |                    |         |
              |          |       +------+     |         |
              |          +------>| OSD2 |     |         |
              |                  +------+     |         |
              |                               |         |
              |                  +------+     |         |
              |                  | OSD3 |<----+         |
              |                  +------+               |
              |                                         |
              |                  +------+               |
              |                  | OSD4 |<--------------+
              |                  +------+
              |
              |                  +------+
              +----------------->| OSD5 |
                                 +------+

Because six racks are available but objects are each spread across
five, a rack going 'out' will result in a healthy cluster (after
significant rebalancing traffic, and assuming there is sufficient
free space).

If two racks go 'out' in this configuration, the cluster will be in
HEALTH_WARN because replication requirements cannot be met for newly
written objects, and no data loss has occurred.

More information can be found in the `erasure code profiles
<../erasure-code-profile>`_ documentation.


Erasure Coding with Overwrites
------------------------------

By default, erasure coded pools only work with uses like RGW that
perform full object writes and appends.

Since Luminous, partial writes for an erasure coded pool may be
enabled with a per-pool setting. This lets RBD and CephFS store their
data in an erasure coded pool::

    ceph osd pool set ec_pool allow_ec_overwrites true

This can only be enabled on a pool residing on bluestore OSDs, since
bluestore's checksumming is used to detect bitrot or other corruption
during deep-scrub. In addition to being unsafe, using filestore with
ec overwrites yields low performance compared to bluestore.

Erasure coded pools do not support omap, so to use them with RBD and
CephFS you must instruct them to store their data in an ec pool, and
their metadata in a replicated pool. For RBD, this means using the
erasure coded pool as the ``--data-pool`` during image creation::

    rbd create --size 1G --data-pool ec_pool replicated_pool/image_name

For CephFS, an erasure coded pool can be set as the default data pool during
file system creation or via `file layouts <../../../cephfs/file-layouts>`_.


Erasure coded pool and cache tiering
------------------------------------

Erasure coded pools require more resources than replicated pools and
lack some functionalities such as omap. To overcome these
limitations, one can set up a `cache tier <../cache-tiering>`_
before the erasure coded pool.

For instance, if the pool *hot-storage* is made of fast storage::

    $ ceph osd tier add ecpool hot-storage
    $ ceph osd tier cache-mode hot-storage writeback
    $ ceph osd tier set-overlay ecpool hot-storage

will place the *hot-storage* pool as tier of *ecpool* in *writeback*
mode so that every write and read to the *ecpool* are actually using
the *hot-storage* and benefit from its flexibility and speed.

More information can be found in the `cache tiering
<../cache-tiering>`_ documentation.

Erasure coded pool recovery
---------------------------
If an erasure coded pool loses some shards, it must recover them from the others.
This generally involves reading from the remaining shards, reconstructing the data, and
writing it to the new peer.
In Octopus, erasure coded pools can recover as long as there are at least *K* shards
available. (With fewer than *K* shards, you have actually lost data!)

Prior to Octopus, erasure coded pools required at least *min_size* shards to be
available, even if *min_size* is greater than *K*. (We generally recommend min_size
be *K+2* or more to prevent loss of writes and data.)
This conservative decision was made out of an abundance of caution when designing the new pool
mode but also meant pools with lost OSDs but no data loss were unable to recover and go active
without manual intervention to change the *min_size*.

Glossary
--------

*chunk*
   when the encoding function is called, it returns chunks of the same
   size. Data chunks which can be concatenated to reconstruct the original
   object and coding chunks which can be used to rebuild a lost chunk.

*K*
   the number of data *chunks*, i.e. the number of *chunks* in which the
   original object is divided. For instance if *K* = 2 a 10KB object
   will be divided into *K* objects of 5KB each.

*M*
   the number of coding *chunks*, i.e. the number of additional *chunks*
   computed by the encoding functions. If there are 2 coding *chunks*,
   it means 2 OSDs can be out without losing data.


Table of content
----------------

.. toctree::
	:maxdepth: 1

	erasure-code-profile
	erasure-code-jerasure
	erasure-code-isa
	erasure-code-lrc
	erasure-code-shec
	erasure-code-clay
