doc/rados/operations/monitoring.rst, before:

======================
 Monitoring a Cluster
======================

Once you have a running cluster, you may use the ``ceph`` tool to monitor your
cluster. Monitoring a cluster typically involves checking OSD status, monitor 
status, placement group status and metadata server status.

Using the command line
======================

Interactive mode
----------------

To run the ``ceph`` tool in interactive mode, type ``ceph`` at the command line
with no arguments.  For example:: 

	ceph
	ceph> health
	ceph> status
	ceph> quorum_status
	ceph> mon_status

Non-default paths
-----------------

If you specified non-default locations for your configuration or keyring,
you may specify their locations::

   ceph -c /path/to/conf -k /path/to/keyring health

Checking a Cluster's Status
===========================

After you start your cluster, and before you start reading and/or
writing data, check your cluster's status first.

To check a cluster's status, execute the following:: 

	ceph status
	
Or:: 

	ceph -s

In interactive mode, type ``status`` and press **Enter**. ::

	ceph> status

Ceph will print the cluster status. For example, a tiny Ceph demonstration
cluster with one of each service may print the following:

::

  cluster:
    id:     477e46f1-ae41-4e43-9c8f-72c918ab0a20
    health: HEALTH_OK
   
  services:
    mon: 3 daemons, quorum a,b,c
    mgr: x(active)
    mds: cephfs_a-1/1/1 up  {0=a=up:active}, 2 up:standby
    osd: 3 osds: 3 up, 3 in
  
  data:
    pools:   2 pools, 16 pgs
    objects: 21 objects, 2.19K
    usage:   546 GB used, 384 GB / 931 GB avail
    pgs:     16 active+clean


.. topic:: How Ceph Calculates Data Usage

   The ``usage`` value reflects the *actual* amount of raw storage used. The 
   ``xxx GB / xxx GB`` value means the amount available (the lesser number)
   of the overall storage capacity of the cluster. The notional number reflects 
   the size of the stored data before it is replicated, cloned or snapshotted.
   Therefore, the amount of data actually stored typically exceeds the notional
   amount stored, because Ceph creates replicas of the data and may also use 
   storage capacity for cloning and snapshotting.


Watching a Cluster
==================

In addition to local logging by each daemon, Ceph clusters maintain
a *cluster log* that records high level events about the whole system.
This is logged to disk on monitor servers (as ``/var/log/ceph/ceph.log`` by
default), but can also be monitored via the command line.

To follow the cluster log, use the following command

:: 

	ceph -w

Ceph will print the status of the system, followed by each log message as it
is emitted.  For example:

:: 

  cluster:
    id:     477e46f1-ae41-4e43-9c8f-72c918ab0a20
    health: HEALTH_OK
  
  services:
    mon: 3 daemons, quorum a,b,c
    mgr: x(active)
    mds: cephfs_a-1/1/1 up  {0=a=up:active}, 2 up:standby
    osd: 3 osds: 3 up, 3 in
  
  data:
    pools:   2 pools, 16 pgs
    objects: 21 objects, 2.19K
    usage:   546 GB used, 384 GB / 931 GB avail
    pgs:     16 active+clean
  
  
  2017-07-24 08:15:11.329298 mon.a mon.0 172.21.9.34:6789/0 23 : cluster [INF] osd.0 172.21.9.34:6806/20527 boot
  2017-07-24 08:15:14.258143 mon.a mon.0 172.21.9.34:6789/0 39 : cluster [INF] Activating manager daemon x
  2017-07-24 08:15:15.446025 mon.a mon.0 172.21.9.34:6789/0 47 : cluster [INF] Manager daemon x is now available


In addition to using ``ceph -w`` to print log lines as they are emitted,
use ``ceph log last [n]`` to see the most recent ``n`` lines from the cluster
log.

Monitoring Health Checks
========================

Ceph continuously runs various *health checks* against its own status.  When
a health check fails, this is reflected in the output of ``ceph status`` (or
``ceph health``).  In addition, messages are sent to the cluster log to
indicate when a check fails, and when the cluster recovers.

For example, when an OSD goes down, the ``health`` section of the status
output may be updated as follows:

::

    health: HEALTH_WARN
            1 osds down
            Degraded data redundancy: 21/63 objects degraded (33.333%), 16 pgs unclean, 16 pgs degraded

At this time, cluster log messages are also emitted to record the failure of the 
health checks:

::

    2017-07-25 10:08:58.265945 mon.a mon.0 172.21.9.34:6789/0 91 : cluster [WRN] Health check failed: 1 osds down (OSD_DOWN)
    2017-07-25 10:09:01.302624 mon.a mon.0 172.21.9.34:6789/0 94 : cluster [WRN] Health check failed: Degraded data redundancy: 21/63 objects degraded (33.333%), 16 pgs unclean, 16 pgs degraded (PG_DEGRADED)

When the OSD comes back online, the cluster log records the cluster's return
to a health state:

::

    2017-07-25 10:11:11.526841 mon.a mon.0 172.21.9.34:6789/0 109 : cluster [WRN] Health check update: Degraded data redundancy: 2 pgs unclean, 2 pgs degraded, 2 pgs undersized (PG_DEGRADED)
    2017-07-25 10:11:13.535493 mon.a mon.0 172.21.9.34:6789/0 110 : cluster [INF] Health check cleared: PG_DEGRADED (was: Degraded data redundancy: 2 pgs unclean, 2 pgs degraded, 2 pgs undersized)
    2017-07-25 10:11:13.535577 mon.a mon.0 172.21.9.34:6789/0 111 : cluster [INF] Cluster is now healthy

Network Performance Checks
--------------------------

Ceph OSDs send heartbeat ping messages amongst themselves to monitor daemon availability.  We
also use the response times to monitor network performance.
While it is possible that a busy OSD could delay a ping response, we can assume
that if a network switch fails multiple delays will be detected between distinct pairs of OSDs.

By default we will warn about ping times which exceed 1 second (1000 milliseconds).

::

    HEALTH_WARN Long heartbeat ping times on back interface seen, longest is 1118.001 msec

The health detail will add the combination of OSDs are seeing the delays and by how much.  There is a limit of 10
detail line items.

::

    [WRN] OSD_SLOW_PING_TIME_BACK: Long heartbeat ping times on back interface seen, longest is 1118.001 msec
        Slow heartbeat ping on back interface from osd.0 to osd.1 1118.001 msec
        Slow heartbeat ping on back interface from osd.0 to osd.2 1030.123 msec
        Slow heartbeat ping on back interface from osd.2 to osd.1 1015.321 msec
        Slow heartbeat ping on back interface from osd.1 to osd.0 1010.456 msec

To see even more detail and a complete dump of network performance information the ``dump_osd_network`` command can be used.  Typically, this would be
sent to a mgr, but it can be limited to a particular OSD's interactions by issuing it to any OSD.  The current threshold which defaults to 1 second
(1000 milliseconds) can be overridden as an argument in milliseconds.

The following command will show all gathered network performance data by specifying a threshold of 0 and sending to the mgr.

::

    $ ceph daemon /var/run/ceph/ceph-mgr.x.asok dump_osd_network 0
    {
        "threshold": 0,
        "entries": [
            {
                "last update": "Wed Sep  4 17:04:49 2019",
                "stale": false,
                "from osd": 2,
                "to osd": 0,
                "interface": "front",
                "average": {
                    "1min": 1.023,
                    "5min": 0.860,
                    "15min": 0.883
                },
                "min": {
                    "1min": 0.818,
                    "5min": 0.607,
                    "15min": 0.607
                },
                "max": {
                    "1min": 1.164,
                    "5min": 1.173,
                    "15min": 1.544
                },
                "last": 0.924
            },
            {
                "last update": "Wed Sep  4 17:04:49 2019",
                "stale": false,
                "from osd": 2,
                "to osd": 0,
                "interface": "back",
                "average": {
                    "1min": 0.968,
                    "5min": 0.897,
                    "15min": 0.830
                },
                "min": {
                    "1min": 0.860,
                    "5min": 0.563,
                    "15min": 0.502
                },
                "max": {
                    "1min": 1.171,
                    "5min": 1.216,
                    "15min": 1.456
                },
                "last": 0.845
            },
            {
                "last update": "Wed Sep  4 17:04:48 2019",
                "stale": false,
                "from osd": 0,
                "to osd": 1,
                "interface": "front",
                "average": {
                    "1min": 0.965,
                    "5min": 0.811,
                    "15min": 0.850
                },
                "min": {
                    "1min": 0.650,
                    "5min": 0.488,
                    "15min": 0.466
                },
                "max": {
                    "1min": 1.252,
                    "5min": 1.252,
                    "15min": 1.362
                },
            "last": 0.791
        },
        ...



Muting health checks
--------------------

Health checks can be muted so that they do not affect the overall
reported status of the cluster.  Alerts are specified using the health
check code (see :ref:`health-checks`)::

  ceph health mute <code>

For example, if there is a health warning, muting it will make the
cluster report an overall status of ``HEALTH_OK``.  For example, to
mute an ``OSD_DOWN`` alert,::

  ceph health mute OSD_DOWN

Mutes are reported as part of the short and long form of the ``ceph health`` command.
For example, in the above scenario, the cluster would report::

  $ ceph health
  HEALTH_OK (muted: OSD_DOWN)
  $ ceph health detail
  HEALTH_OK (muted: OSD_DOWN)
  (MUTED) OSD_DOWN 1 osds down
      osd.1 is down

A mute can be explicitly removed with::

  ceph health unmute <code>

For example,::

  ceph health unmute OSD_DOWN

A health check mute may optionally have a TTL (time to live)
associated with it, such that the mute will automatically expire
after the specified period of time has elapsed.  The TTL is specified as an optional
duration argument, e.g.::

  ceph health mute OSD_DOWN 4h    # mute for 4 hours
  ceph health mute MON_DOWN 15m   # mute for 15  minutes

Normally, if a muted health alert is resolved (e.g., in the example
above, the OSD comes back up), the mute goes away.  If the alert comes
back later, it will be reported in the usual way.

It is possible to make a mute "sticky" such that the mute will remain even if the
alert clears.  For example,::

  ceph health mute OSD_DOWN 1h --sticky   # ignore any/all down OSDs for next hour

Most health mutes also disappear if the extent of an alert gets worse.  For example,
if there is one OSD down, and the alert is muted, the mute will disappear if one
or more additional OSDs go down.  This is true for any health alert that involves
a count indicating how much or how many of something is triggering the warning or
error.


Detecting configuration issues
==============================

In addition to the health checks that Ceph continuously runs on its
own status, there are some configuration issues that may only be detected
by an external tool.

Use the `ceph-medic`_ tool to run these additional checks on your Ceph
cluster's configuration.

Checking a Cluster's Usage Stats
================================

To check a cluster's data usage and data distribution among pools, you can
use the ``df`` option. It is similar to Linux ``df``. Execute 
the following::

	ceph df

The **RAW STORAGE** section of the output provides an overview of the
amount of storage that is managed by your cluster.

- **CLASS:** The class of OSD device (or the total for the cluster)
- **SIZE:** The amount of storage capacity managed by the cluster.
- **AVAIL:** The amount of free space available in the cluster.
- **USED:** The amount of raw storage consumed by user data.
- **RAW USED:** The amount of raw storage consumed by user data, internal overhead, or reserved capacity.
- **%RAW USED:** The percentage of raw storage used. Use this number in
  conjunction with the ``full ratio`` and ``near full ratio`` to ensure that 
  you are not reaching your cluster's capacity. See `Storage Capacity`_ for 
  additional details.

The **POOLS** section of the output provides a list of pools and the notional 
usage of each pool. The output from this section **DOES NOT** reflect replicas,
clones or snapshots. For example, if you store an object with 1MB of data, the 
notional usage will be 1MB, but the actual usage may be 2MB or more depending 
on the number of replicas, clones and snapshots.

- **NAME:** The name of the pool.
- **ID:** The pool ID.
- **USED:** The notional amount of data stored in kilobytes, unless the number 
  appends **M** for megabytes or **G** for gigabytes.
- **%USED:** The notional percentage of storage used per pool.
- **MAX AVAIL:** An estimate of the notional amount of data that can be written
  to this pool.
- **OBJECTS:** The notional number of objects stored per pool.

.. note:: The numbers in the **POOLS** section are notional. They are not 
   inclusive of the number of replicas, snapshots or clones. As a result, 
   the sum of the **USED** and **%USED** amounts will not add up to the 
   **USED** and **%USED** amounts in the **RAW** section of the
   output.

.. note:: The **MAX AVAIL** value is a complicated function of the
   replication or erasure code used, the CRUSH rule that maps storage
   to devices, the utilization of those devices, and the configured
   mon_osd_full_ratio.



Checking OSD Status
===================

You can check OSDs to ensure they are ``up`` and ``in`` by executing:: 

	ceph osd stat
	
Or:: 

	ceph osd dump
	
You can also check view OSDs according to their position in the CRUSH map. :: 

	ceph osd tree

Ceph will print out a CRUSH tree with a host, its OSDs, whether they are up
and their weight. ::  

	#ID CLASS WEIGHT  TYPE NAME             STATUS REWEIGHT PRI-AFF
	 -1       3.00000 pool default
	 -3       3.00000 rack mainrack
	 -2       3.00000 host osd-host
	  0   ssd 1.00000         osd.0             up  1.00000 1.00000
	  1   ssd 1.00000         osd.1             up  1.00000 1.00000
	  2   ssd 1.00000         osd.2             up  1.00000 1.00000

For a detailed discussion, refer to `Monitoring OSDs and Placement Groups`_.

Checking Monitor Status
=======================

If your cluster has multiple monitors (likely), you should check the monitor
quorum status after you start the cluster and before reading and/or writing data. A
quorum must be present when multiple monitors are running. You should also check
monitor status periodically to ensure that they are running.

To see display the monitor map, execute the following::

	ceph mon stat
	
Or:: 

	ceph mon dump
	
To check the quorum status for the monitor cluster, execute the following:: 
	
	ceph quorum_status

Ceph will return the quorum status. For example, a Ceph  cluster consisting of
three monitors may return the following:

.. code-block:: javascript

	{ "election_epoch": 10,
	  "quorum": [
	        0,
	        1,
	        2],
	  "quorum_names": [
		"a",
		"b",
		"c"],
	  "quorum_leader_name": "a",
	  "monmap": { "epoch": 1,
	      "fsid": "444b489c-4f16-4b75-83f0-cb8097468898",
	      "modified": "2011-12-12 13:28:27.505520",
	      "created": "2011-12-12 13:28:27.505520",
	      "features": {"persistent": [
				"kraken",
				"luminous",
				"mimic"],
		"optional": []
	      },
	      "mons": [
	            { "rank": 0,
	              "name": "a",
	              "addr": "127.0.0.1:6789/0",
		      "public_addr": "127.0.0.1:6789/0"},
	            { "rank": 1,
	              "name": "b",
	              "addr": "127.0.0.1:6790/0",
		      "public_addr": "127.0.0.1:6790/0"},
	            { "rank": 2,
	              "name": "c",
	              "addr": "127.0.0.1:6791/0",
		      "public_addr": "127.0.0.1:6791/0"}
	           ]
	  }
	}

Checking MDS Status
===================

Metadata servers provide metadata services for  CephFS. Metadata servers have
two sets of states: ``up | down`` and ``active | inactive``. To ensure your
metadata servers are ``up`` and ``active``,  execute the following:: 

	ceph mds stat
	
To display details of the metadata cluster, execute the following:: 

	ceph fs dump


Checking Placement Group States
===============================

Placement groups map objects to OSDs. When you monitor your
placement groups,  you will want them to be ``active`` and ``clean``. 
For a detailed discussion, refer to `Monitoring OSDs and Placement Groups`_.

.. _Monitoring OSDs and Placement Groups: ../monitoring-osd-pg


Using the Admin Socket
======================

The Ceph admin socket allows you to query a daemon via a socket interface. 
By default, Ceph sockets reside under ``/var/run/ceph``. To access a daemon
via the admin socket, login to the host running the daemon and use the 
following command:: 

	ceph daemon {daemon-name}
	ceph daemon {path-to-socket-file}

For example, the following are equivalent::

    ceph daemon osd.0 foo
    ceph daemon /var/run/ceph/ceph-osd.0.asok foo

To view the available admin socket commands, execute the following command:: 

	ceph daemon {daemon-name} help

The admin socket command enables you to show and set your configuration at
runtime. See `Viewing a Configuration at Runtime`_ for details.

Additionally, you can set configuration values at runtime directly (i.e., the
admin socket bypasses the monitor, unlike ``ceph tell {daemon-type}.{id}
config set``, which relies on the monitor but doesn't require you to login
directly to the host in question ).

.. _Viewing a Configuration at Runtime: ../../configuration/ceph-conf#viewing-a-configuration-at-runtime
.. _Storage Capacity: ../../configuration/mon-config-ref#storage-capacity
.. _ceph-medic: http://docs.ceph.com/ceph-medic/master/

Commit message:

mon: Improvements to slow heartbeat health messages
Include crush parentage for each osd

Fixes: https://tracker.ceph.com/issues/43126

Signed-off-by: David Zafman <dzafman@redhat.com>

doc/rados/operations/monitoring.rst, after:

======================
 Monitoring a Cluster
======================

Once you have a running cluster, you may use the ``ceph`` tool to monitor your
cluster. Monitoring a cluster typically involves checking OSD status, monitor 
status, placement group status and metadata server status.

Using the command line
======================

Interactive mode
----------------

To run the ``ceph`` tool in interactive mode, type ``ceph`` at the command line
with no arguments.  For example:: 

	ceph
	ceph> health
	ceph> status
	ceph> quorum_status
	ceph> mon_status

Non-default paths
-----------------

If you specified non-default locations for your configuration or keyring,
you may specify their locations::

   ceph -c /path/to/conf -k /path/to/keyring health

Checking a Cluster's Status
===========================

After you start your cluster, and before you start reading and/or
writing data, check your cluster's status first.

To check a cluster's status, execute the following:: 

	ceph status
	
Or:: 

	ceph -s

In interactive mode, type ``status`` and press **Enter**. ::

	ceph> status

Ceph will print the cluster status. For example, a tiny Ceph demonstration
cluster with one of each service may print the following:

::

  cluster:
    id:     477e46f1-ae41-4e43-9c8f-72c918ab0a20
    health: HEALTH_OK
   
  services:
    mon: 3 daemons, quorum a,b,c
    mgr: x(active)
    mds: cephfs_a-1/1/1 up  {0=a=up:active}, 2 up:standby
    osd: 3 osds: 3 up, 3 in
  
  data:
    pools:   2 pools, 16 pgs
    objects: 21 objects, 2.19K
    usage:   546 GB used, 384 GB / 931 GB avail
    pgs:     16 active+clean


.. topic:: How Ceph Calculates Data Usage

   The ``usage`` value reflects the *actual* amount of raw storage used. The 
   ``xxx GB / xxx GB`` value means the amount available (the lesser number)
   of the overall storage capacity of the cluster. The notional number reflects 
   the size of the stored data before it is replicated, cloned or snapshotted.
   Therefore, the amount of data actually stored typically exceeds the notional
   amount stored, because Ceph creates replicas of the data and may also use 
   storage capacity for cloning and snapshotting.


Watching a Cluster
==================

In addition to local logging by each daemon, Ceph clusters maintain
a *cluster log* that records high level events about the whole system.
This is logged to disk on monitor servers (as ``/var/log/ceph/ceph.log`` by
default), but can also be monitored via the command line.

To follow the cluster log, use the following command

:: 

	ceph -w

Ceph will print the status of the system, followed by each log message as it
is emitted.  For example:

:: 

  cluster:
    id:     477e46f1-ae41-4e43-9c8f-72c918ab0a20
    health: HEALTH_OK
  
  services:
    mon: 3 daemons, quorum a,b,c
    mgr: x(active)
    mds: cephfs_a-1/1/1 up  {0=a=up:active}, 2 up:standby
    osd: 3 osds: 3 up, 3 in
  
  data:
    pools:   2 pools, 16 pgs
    objects: 21 objects, 2.19K
    usage:   546 GB used, 384 GB / 931 GB avail
    pgs:     16 active+clean
  
  
  2017-07-24 08:15:11.329298 mon.a mon.0 172.21.9.34:6789/0 23 : cluster [INF] osd.0 172.21.9.34:6806/20527 boot
  2017-07-24 08:15:14.258143 mon.a mon.0 172.21.9.34:6789/0 39 : cluster [INF] Activating manager daemon x
  2017-07-24 08:15:15.446025 mon.a mon.0 172.21.9.34:6789/0 47 : cluster [INF] Manager daemon x is now available


In addition to using ``ceph -w`` to print log lines as they are emitted,
use ``ceph log last [n]`` to see the most recent ``n`` lines from the cluster
log.

Monitoring Health Checks
========================

Ceph continuously runs various *health checks* against its own status.  When
a health check fails, this is reflected in the output of ``ceph status`` (or
``ceph health``).  In addition, messages are sent to the cluster log to
indicate when a check fails, and when the cluster recovers.

For example, when an OSD goes down, the ``health`` section of the status
output may be updated as follows:

::

    health: HEALTH_WARN
            1 osds down
            Degraded data redundancy: 21/63 objects degraded (33.333%), 16 pgs unclean, 16 pgs degraded

At this time, cluster log messages are also emitted to record the failure of the 
health checks:

::

    2017-07-25 10:08:58.265945 mon.a mon.0 172.21.9.34:6789/0 91 : cluster [WRN] Health check failed: 1 osds down (OSD_DOWN)
    2017-07-25 10:09:01.302624 mon.a mon.0 172.21.9.34:6789/0 94 : cluster [WRN] Health check failed: Degraded data redundancy: 21/63 objects degraded (33.333%), 16 pgs unclean, 16 pgs degraded (PG_DEGRADED)

When the OSD comes back online, the cluster log records the cluster's return
to a health state:

::

    2017-07-25 10:11:11.526841 mon.a mon.0 172.21.9.34:6789/0 109 : cluster [WRN] Health check update: Degraded data redundancy: 2 pgs unclean, 2 pgs degraded, 2 pgs undersized (PG_DEGRADED)
    2017-07-25 10:11:13.535493 mon.a mon.0 172.21.9.34:6789/0 110 : cluster [INF] Health check cleared: PG_DEGRADED (was: Degraded data redundancy: 2 pgs unclean, 2 pgs degraded, 2 pgs undersized)
    2017-07-25 10:11:13.535577 mon.a mon.0 172.21.9.34:6789/0 111 : cluster [INF] Cluster is now healthy

Network Performance Checks
--------------------------

Ceph OSDs send heartbeat ping messages amongst themselves to monitor daemon availability.  We
also use the response times to monitor network performance.
While it is possible that a busy OSD could delay a ping response, we can assume
that if a network switch fails multiple delays will be detected between distinct pairs of OSDs.

By default we will warn about ping times which exceed 1 second (1000 milliseconds).

::

    HEALTH_WARN Slow OSD heartbeats on back (longest 1118.001ms)

The health detail will add the combination of OSDs are seeing the delays and by how much.  There is a limit of 10
detail line items.

::

    [WRN] OSD_SLOW_PING_TIME_BACK: Slow OSD heartbeats on back (longest 1118.001ms)
        Slow OSD heartbeats on back from osd.0 [dc1,rack1] to osd.1 [dc1,rack1] 1118.001 msec possibly improving
        Slow OSD heartbeats on back from osd.0 [dc1,rack1] to osd.2 [dc1,rack2] 1030.123 msec
        Slow OSD heartbeats on back from osd.2 [dc1,rack2] to osd.1 [dc1,rack1] 1015.321 msec
        Slow OSD heartbeats on back from osd.1 [dc1,rack1] to osd.0 [dc1,rack1] 1010.456 msec

To see even more detail and a complete dump of network performance information the ``dump_osd_network`` command can be used.  Typically, this would be
sent to a mgr, but it can be limited to a particular OSD's interactions by issuing it to any OSD.  The current threshold which defaults to 1 second
(1000 milliseconds) can be overridden as an argument in milliseconds.

The following command will show all gathered network performance data by specifying a threshold of 0 and sending to the mgr.

::

    $ ceph daemon /var/run/ceph/ceph-mgr.x.asok dump_osd_network 0
    {
        "threshold": 0,
        "entries": [
            {
                "last update": "Wed Sep  4 17:04:49 2019",
                "stale": false,
                "from osd": 2,
                "to osd": 0,
                "interface": "front",
                "average": {
                    "1min": 1.023,
                    "5min": 0.860,
                    "15min": 0.883
                },
                "min": {
                    "1min": 0.818,
                    "5min": 0.607,
                    "15min": 0.607
                },
                "max": {
                    "1min": 1.164,
                    "5min": 1.173,
                    "15min": 1.544
                },
                "last": 0.924
            },
            {
                "last update": "Wed Sep  4 17:04:49 2019",
                "stale": false,
                "from osd": 2,
                "to osd": 0,
                "interface": "back",
                "average": {
                    "1min": 0.968,
                    "5min": 0.897,
                    "15min": 0.830
                },
                "min": {
                    "1min": 0.860,
                    "5min": 0.563,
                    "15min": 0.502
                },
                "max": {
                    "1min": 1.171,
                    "5min": 1.216,
                    "15min": 1.456
                },
                "last": 0.845
            },
            {
                "last update": "Wed Sep  4 17:04:48 2019",
                "stale": false,
                "from osd": 0,
                "to osd": 1,
                "interface": "front",
                "average": {
                    "1min": 0.965,
                    "5min": 0.811,
                    "15min": 0.850
                },
                "min": {
                    "1min": 0.650,
                    "5min": 0.488,
                    "15min": 0.466
                },
                "max": {
                    "1min": 1.252,
                    "5min": 1.252,
                    "15min": 1.362
                },
            "last": 0.791
        },
        ...



Muting health checks
--------------------

Health checks can be muted so that they do not affect the overall
reported status of the cluster.  Alerts are specified using the health
check code (see :ref:`health-checks`)::

  ceph health mute <code>

For example, if there is a health warning, muting it will make the
cluster report an overall status of ``HEALTH_OK``.  For example, to
mute an ``OSD_DOWN`` alert,::

  ceph health mute OSD_DOWN

Mutes are reported as part of the short and long form of the ``ceph health`` command.
For example, in the above scenario, the cluster would report::

  $ ceph health
  HEALTH_OK (muted: OSD_DOWN)
  $ ceph health detail
  HEALTH_OK (muted: OSD_DOWN)
  (MUTED) OSD_DOWN 1 osds down
      osd.1 is down

A mute can be explicitly removed with::

  ceph health unmute <code>

For example,::

  ceph health unmute OSD_DOWN

A health check mute may optionally have a TTL (time to live)
associated with it, such that the mute will automatically expire
after the specified period of time has elapsed.  The TTL is specified as an optional
duration argument, e.g.::

  ceph health mute OSD_DOWN 4h    # mute for 4 hours
  ceph health mute MON_DOWN 15m   # mute for 15  minutes

Normally, if a muted health alert is resolved (e.g., in the example
above, the OSD comes back up), the mute goes away.  If the alert comes
back later, it will be reported in the usual way.

It is possible to make a mute "sticky" such that the mute will remain even if the
alert clears.  For example,::

  ceph health mute OSD_DOWN 1h --sticky   # ignore any/all down OSDs for next hour

Most health mutes also disappear if the extent of an alert gets worse.  For example,
if there is one OSD down, and the alert is muted, the mute will disappear if one
or more additional OSDs go down.  This is true for any health alert that involves
a count indicating how much or how many of something is triggering the warning or
error.


Detecting configuration issues
==============================

In addition to the health checks that Ceph continuously runs on its
own status, there are some configuration issues that may only be detected
by an external tool.

Use the `ceph-medic`_ tool to run these additional checks on your Ceph
cluster's configuration.

Checking a Cluster's Usage Stats
================================

To check a cluster's data usage and data distribution among pools, you can
use the ``df`` option. It is similar to Linux ``df``. Execute 
the following::

	ceph df

The **RAW STORAGE** section of the output provides an overview of the
amount of storage that is managed by your cluster.

- **CLASS:** The class of OSD device (or the total for the cluster)
- **SIZE:** The amount of storage capacity managed by the cluster.
- **AVAIL:** The amount of free space available in the cluster.
- **USED:** The amount of raw storage consumed by user data.
- **RAW USED:** The amount of raw storage consumed by user data, internal overhead, or reserved capacity.
- **%RAW USED:** The percentage of raw storage used. Use this number in
  conjunction with the ``full ratio`` and ``near full ratio`` to ensure that 
  you are not reaching your cluster's capacity. See `Storage Capacity`_ for 
  additional details.

The **POOLS** section of the output provides a list of pools and the notional 
usage of each pool. The output from this section **DOES NOT** reflect replicas,
clones or snapshots. For example, if you store an object with 1MB of data, the 
notional usage will be 1MB, but the actual usage may be 2MB or more depending 
on the number of replicas, clones and snapshots.

- **NAME:** The name of the pool.
- **ID:** The pool ID.
- **USED:** The notional amount of data stored in kilobytes, unless the number 
  appends **M** for megabytes or **G** for gigabytes.
- **%USED:** The notional percentage of storage used per pool.
- **MAX AVAIL:** An estimate of the notional amount of data that can be written
  to this pool.
- **OBJECTS:** The notional number of objects stored per pool.

.. note:: The numbers in the **POOLS** section are notional. They are not 
   inclusive of the number of replicas, snapshots or clones. As a result, 
   the sum of the **USED** and **%USED** amounts will not add up to the 
   **USED** and **%USED** amounts in the **RAW** section of the
   output.

.. note:: The **MAX AVAIL** value is a complicated function of the
   replication or erasure code used, the CRUSH rule that maps storage
   to devices, the utilization of those devices, and the configured
   mon_osd_full_ratio.



Checking OSD Status
===================

You can check OSDs to ensure they are ``up`` and ``in`` by executing:: 

	ceph osd stat
	
Or:: 

	ceph osd dump
	
You can also check view OSDs according to their position in the CRUSH map. :: 

	ceph osd tree

Ceph will print out a CRUSH tree with a host, its OSDs, whether they are up
and their weight. ::  

	#ID CLASS WEIGHT  TYPE NAME             STATUS REWEIGHT PRI-AFF
	 -1       3.00000 pool default
	 -3       3.00000 rack mainrack
	 -2       3.00000 host osd-host
	  0   ssd 1.00000         osd.0             up  1.00000 1.00000
	  1   ssd 1.00000         osd.1             up  1.00000 1.00000
	  2   ssd 1.00000         osd.2             up  1.00000 1.00000

For a detailed discussion, refer to `Monitoring OSDs and Placement Groups`_.

Checking Monitor Status
=======================

If your cluster has multiple monitors (likely), you should check the monitor
quorum status after you start the cluster and before reading and/or writing data. A
quorum must be present when multiple monitors are running. You should also check
monitor status periodically to ensure that they are running.

To see display the monitor map, execute the following::

	ceph mon stat
	
Or:: 

	ceph mon dump
	
To check the quorum status for the monitor cluster, execute the following:: 
	
	ceph quorum_status

Ceph will return the quorum status. For example, a Ceph  cluster consisting of
three monitors may return the following:

.. code-block:: javascript

	{ "election_epoch": 10,
	  "quorum": [
	        0,
	        1,
	        2],
	  "quorum_names": [
		"a",
		"b",
		"c"],
	  "quorum_leader_name": "a",
	  "monmap": { "epoch": 1,
	      "fsid": "444b489c-4f16-4b75-83f0-cb8097468898",
	      "modified": "2011-12-12 13:28:27.505520",
	      "created": "2011-12-12 13:28:27.505520",
	      "features": {"persistent": [
				"kraken",
				"luminous",
				"mimic"],
		"optional": []
	      },
	      "mons": [
	            { "rank": 0,
	              "name": "a",
	              "addr": "127.0.0.1:6789/0",
		      "public_addr": "127.0.0.1:6789/0"},
	            { "rank": 1,
	              "name": "b",
	              "addr": "127.0.0.1:6790/0",
		      "public_addr": "127.0.0.1:6790/0"},
	            { "rank": 2,
	              "name": "c",
	              "addr": "127.0.0.1:6791/0",
		      "public_addr": "127.0.0.1:6791/0"}
	           ]
	  }
	}

Checking MDS Status
===================

Metadata servers provide metadata services for  CephFS. Metadata servers have
two sets of states: ``up | down`` and ``active | inactive``. To ensure your
metadata servers are ``up`` and ``active``,  execute the following:: 

	ceph mds stat
	
To display details of the metadata cluster, execute the following:: 

	ceph fs dump


Checking Placement Group States
===============================

Placement groups map objects to OSDs. When you monitor your
placement groups,  you will want them to be ``active`` and ``clean``. 
For a detailed discussion, refer to `Monitoring OSDs and Placement Groups`_.

.. _Monitoring OSDs and Placement Groups: ../monitoring-osd-pg


Using the Admin Socket
======================

The Ceph admin socket allows you to query a daemon via a socket interface. 
By default, Ceph sockets reside under ``/var/run/ceph``. To access a daemon
via the admin socket, login to the host running the daemon and use the 
following command:: 

	ceph daemon {daemon-name}
	ceph daemon {path-to-socket-file}

For example, the following are equivalent::

    ceph daemon osd.0 foo
    ceph daemon /var/run/ceph/ceph-osd.0.asok foo

To view the available admin socket commands, execute the following command:: 

	ceph daemon {daemon-name} help

The admin socket command enables you to show and set your configuration at
runtime. See `Viewing a Configuration at Runtime`_ for details.

Additionally, you can set configuration values at runtime directly (i.e., the
admin socket bypasses the monitor, unlike ``ceph tell {daemon-type}.{id}
config set``, which relies on the monitor but doesn't require you to login
directly to the host in question ).

.. _Viewing a Configuration at Runtime: ../../configuration/ceph-conf#viewing-a-configuration-at-runtime
.. _Storage Capacity: ../../configuration/mon-config-ref#storage-capacity
.. _ceph-medic: http://docs.ceph.com/ceph-medic/master/
