docs/siteconfig.rst, before:

.. _site_config:

Site and Client Configuration
=============================

Teuthology requires several configuration options to be set, and provides many other optional ones. They are looked for in ``~/.teuthology.yaml`` if it exists, or ``/etc/teuthology.yaml`` if it doesn't.

Here is a sample configuration with many of the options set and documented::

    # lab_domain: the domain name to append to all short hostnames
    lab_domain: example.com

    # The root directory to use for storage of all scheduled job logs and 
    # other data.
    archive_base: /home/teuthworker/archive

    # The default machine_type value to use when not specified. Currently 
    # only used by teuthology-suite.
    default_machine_type: awesomebox

    # Control how many machines need to be free in the cluster. 0 means
    # Teuthology can use the entire cluster.
    reserve_machines: 5

    # The host and port to use for the beanstalkd queue. This is required 
    # for scheduled jobs.
    queue_host: localhost
    queue_port: 11300

    # The URL of the lock server (paddles). This is required for scheduled 
    # jobs.
    lock_server: http://paddles.example.com:8080/

    # The URL of the results server (paddles).
    results_server: http://paddles.example.com:8080/

    # This URL of the results UI server (pulpito). You must of course use 
    # paddles for pulpito to be useful.
    results_ui_server: http://pulpito.example.com/

    # Email address that will receive job results summaries.
    results_email: ceph-qa@example.com

    # Email address that job results summaries originate from
    results_sending_email: teuthology@example.com

    # How long (in seconds) teuthology-results should wait for jobs to finish
    # before considering them 'hung'
    results_timeout: 43200

    # Gitbuilder archive that stores e.g. ceph packages
    gitbuilder_host: gitbuilder.example.com

    # Verify the packages signatures
    check_package_signatures: true

    # Where all git repos are considered to reside.
    ceph_git_base_url: https://github.com/ceph/

    # Where the ceph git repo is considered to reside.
    ceph_git_url: https://github.com/ceph/ceph.git

    # Where the ceph-qa-suite git repo is considered to reside.
    ceph_qa_suite_git_url: https://github.com/ceph/ceph-qa-suite.git

    # Where teuthology and ceph-qa-suite repos should be stored locally
    src_base_path: /home/foo/src

    # Where teuthology path is located: do not clone if present
    #teuthology_path: .

    # Whether or not teuthology-suite, when scheduling, should update 
    # itself from git. This is disabled by default.
    automated_scheduling: false

    # How often, in seconds, teuthology-worker should poll its child job 
    # processes
    watchdog_interval: 120

    # How long a scheduled job should be allowed to run, in seconds, before 
    # it is killed by the worker process.
    max_job_time: 259200

    # The template from which the URL of the repository containing packages
    # is built.
    #
    # {host} is 'gitbuilder_host' from .teuthology.yaml
    # {proj} is the value of 'project' from the job yaml file or 'ceph'
    # {flavor} is the value of 'flavor' from the job yaml file or 'basic'
    # {uri} is ref/tag if 'tag' is set in the job yaml file
    #       or ref/branch if 'branch' is set in the job yaml file
    #       or sha1/sha1 if 'sha1' is set in the job yaml file
    #       or ref/master
    # {pkg_type} is either 'deb' or 'rpm' depending on the host on which the
    #            packages are to be installed
    # {dist} If lsb_release -si is Fedora the value is:
    #          Fedora 20 => fc20
    #          Fedora 21 => fc21
    #          etc.
    #        If lsb_release -si is CentOS or RedHatEnterpriseServer it is
    #          CentOS 6.5 => centos6
    #          CentOS 7.0 => centos7
    #          CentOS 7.1 => centos7
    #          RedHatEnterpriseServer 6.4 => centos6
    #          RedHatEnterpriseServer 7.0 => centos7
    #          RedHatEnterpriseServer 7.1 => centos7
    #          etc.
    #       Everything else is whatever lsb_release -sc returns
    #          Ubuntu 12.04 => precise
    #          Ubuntu 14.04 => trusty
    #          Debian GNU/Linux 7.0 => wheezy
    #          Debian GNU/Linux 8.0 => jessie
    #          etc.
    # {arch} is the output of the 'arch' command on the host on which
    #        the packages are to be installed
    #           i386
    #           x86_64
    #           armv7l
    #           etc.
    baseurl_template: http://{host}/{proj}-{pkg_type}-{dist}-{arch}-{flavor}/{uri}

    # If True, teuthology-suite verifies that a package matching the
    # desired ceph branch exists in the gitbuilder. If False, no
    # verification is done and teuthology-suite assumes the packages
    # are either not necessary to run the task or they are created on
    # demand.
    suite_verify_ceph_hash: True

    # The rsync destination to upload the job results, when --upload is
    # is provided to teuthology-suite.
    #
    archive_upload: ubuntu@teuthology-logs.public.ceph.com:./

    # The path to the SSH private key for rsync to upload to archive_upload
    #
    archive_upload_key: None

    # The public facing URL of the archive_upload location
    #
    archive_upload_url: http://teuthology-logs.public.ceph.com/

    # The OpenStack backend configuration, a dictionary interpreted as follows
    #
    openstack:

      # The teuthology-openstack command will clone teuthology with
      # this command for the purpose of deploying teuthology from
      # scratch and run workers listening on the openstack tube
      #
      clone: git clone http://github.com/ceph/teuthology

      # The path to the user-data file used when creating a target. It can have
      # the {os_type} and {os_version} placeholders which are replaced with
      # the value of --os-type and --os-version. No instance of a give {os_type}
      # and {os_version} combination can be created unless such a file exists.
      #
      user-data: teuthology/openstack/openstack-{os_type}-{os_version}-user-data.txt
  
      # The IP number of the instance running the teuthology cluster. It will
      # be used to build user facing URLs and should usually be the floating IP
      # associated with the instance running the pulpito server.
      #
      ip: 8.4.8.4

      # OpenStack has predefined machine sizes (called flavors)
      # For a given job requiring N machines, the following example select
      # the smallest flavor that satisfies these requirements. For instance
      # If there are three flavors
      #
      #   F1 (10GB disk, 2000MB RAM, 1CPU)
      #   F2 (100GB disk, 7000MB RAM, 1CPU)
      #   F3 (50GB disk, 7000MB RAM, 1CPU)
      #
      # and machine: { disk: 40, ram: 7000, cpus: 1 }, F3 will be chosen.
      # F1 does not have enough RAM (2000 instead of the 7000 minimum) and
      # although F2 satisfies all the requirements, it is larger than F3
      # (100GB instead of 50GB) and presumably more expensive.
      #
      # This configuration applies to all instances created for teuthology jobs
      # that do not redefine these values.
      #
      machine:
      
        # The minimum root disk size of the flavor, in GB
        #
        disk: 20 # GB

        # The minimum RAM size of the flavor, in MB
        # 
        ram: 8000 # MB

        # The minimum number of vCPUS of the flavor
        #
        cpus: 1

      # The volumes attached to each instance. In the following example,
      # three volumes of 10 GB will be created for each instance and 
      # will show as /dev/vdb, /dev/vdc and /dev/vdd
      #
      # This configuration applies to all instances created for teuthology jobs
      # that do not redefine these values.
      #
      volumes:

        # The number of volumes
        #
        count: 3
        
        # The size of each volume, in GB
        #
        size: 10 # GB

Commit message:

Don't attempt to schedule when missing packages
By default, anyway. It's possible to set
config.suite_allow_missing_packages to continue stick with the old
behavior.

Signed-off-by: Zack Cerza <zack@redhat.com>

docs/siteconfig.rst, after:

.. _site_config:

Site and Client Configuration
=============================

Teuthology requires several configuration options to be set, and provides many other optional ones. They are looked for in ``~/.teuthology.yaml`` if it exists, or ``/etc/teuthology.yaml`` if it doesn't.

Here is a sample configuration with many of the options set and documented::

    # lab_domain: the domain name to append to all short hostnames
    lab_domain: example.com

    # The root directory to use for storage of all scheduled job logs and 
    # other data.
    archive_base: /home/teuthworker/archive

    # The default machine_type value to use when not specified. Currently 
    # only used by teuthology-suite.
    default_machine_type: awesomebox

    # Control how many machines need to be free in the cluster. 0 means
    # Teuthology can use the entire cluster.
    reserve_machines: 5

    # The host and port to use for the beanstalkd queue. This is required 
    # for scheduled jobs.
    queue_host: localhost
    queue_port: 11300

    # The URL of the lock server (paddles). This is required for scheduled 
    # jobs.
    lock_server: http://paddles.example.com:8080/

    # The URL of the results server (paddles).
    results_server: http://paddles.example.com:8080/

    # This URL of the results UI server (pulpito). You must of course use 
    # paddles for pulpito to be useful.
    results_ui_server: http://pulpito.example.com/

    # Email address that will receive job results summaries.
    results_email: ceph-qa@example.com

    # Email address that job results summaries originate from
    results_sending_email: teuthology@example.com

    # How long (in seconds) teuthology-results should wait for jobs to finish
    # before considering them 'hung'
    results_timeout: 43200

    # Gitbuilder archive that stores e.g. ceph packages
    gitbuilder_host: gitbuilder.example.com

    # Verify the packages signatures
    check_package_signatures: true

    # Where all git repos are considered to reside.
    ceph_git_base_url: https://github.com/ceph/

    # Where the ceph git repo is considered to reside.
    ceph_git_url: https://github.com/ceph/ceph.git

    # Where the ceph-qa-suite git repo is considered to reside.
    ceph_qa_suite_git_url: https://github.com/ceph/ceph-qa-suite.git

    # Where teuthology and ceph-qa-suite repos should be stored locally
    src_base_path: /home/foo/src

    # Where teuthology path is located: do not clone if present
    #teuthology_path: .

    # Whether or not teuthology-suite, when scheduling, should update 
    # itself from git. This is disabled by default.
    automated_scheduling: false

    # How often, in seconds, teuthology-worker should poll its child job 
    # processes
    watchdog_interval: 120

    # How long a scheduled job should be allowed to run, in seconds, before 
    # it is killed by the worker process.
    max_job_time: 259200

    # The template from which the URL of the repository containing packages
    # is built.
    #
    # {host} is 'gitbuilder_host' from .teuthology.yaml
    # {proj} is the value of 'project' from the job yaml file or 'ceph'
    # {flavor} is the value of 'flavor' from the job yaml file or 'basic'
    # {uri} is ref/tag if 'tag' is set in the job yaml file
    #       or ref/branch if 'branch' is set in the job yaml file
    #       or sha1/sha1 if 'sha1' is set in the job yaml file
    #       or ref/master
    # {pkg_type} is either 'deb' or 'rpm' depending on the host on which the
    #            packages are to be installed
    # {dist} If lsb_release -si is Fedora the value is:
    #          Fedora 20 => fc20
    #          Fedora 21 => fc21
    #          etc.
    #        If lsb_release -si is CentOS or RedHatEnterpriseServer it is
    #          CentOS 6.5 => centos6
    #          CentOS 7.0 => centos7
    #          CentOS 7.1 => centos7
    #          RedHatEnterpriseServer 6.4 => centos6
    #          RedHatEnterpriseServer 7.0 => centos7
    #          RedHatEnterpriseServer 7.1 => centos7
    #          etc.
    #       Everything else is whatever lsb_release -sc returns
    #          Ubuntu 12.04 => precise
    #          Ubuntu 14.04 => trusty
    #          Debian GNU/Linux 7.0 => wheezy
    #          Debian GNU/Linux 8.0 => jessie
    #          etc.
    # {arch} is the output of the 'arch' command on the host on which
    #        the packages are to be installed
    #           i386
    #           x86_64
    #           armv7l
    #           etc.
    baseurl_template: http://{host}/{proj}-{pkg_type}-{dist}-{arch}-{flavor}/{uri}

    # If True, teuthology-suite verifies that a package matching the
    # desired ceph branch exists in the gitbuilder. If False, no
    # verification is done and teuthology-suite assumes the packages
    # are either not necessary to run the task or they are created on
    # demand.
    suite_verify_ceph_hash: True

    # If true, teuthology-suite will schedule jobs even if the required
    # packages are not built.
    suite_allow_missing_packages: False

    # The rsync destination to upload the job results, when --upload is
    # is provided to teuthology-suite.
    #
    archive_upload: ubuntu@teuthology-logs.public.ceph.com:./

    # The path to the SSH private key for rsync to upload to archive_upload
    #
    archive_upload_key: None

    # The public facing URL of the archive_upload location
    #
    archive_upload_url: http://teuthology-logs.public.ceph.com/

    # The OpenStack backend configuration, a dictionary interpreted as follows
    #
    openstack:

      # The teuthology-openstack command will clone teuthology with
      # this command for the purpose of deploying teuthology from
      # scratch and run workers listening on the openstack tube
      #
      clone: git clone http://github.com/ceph/teuthology

      # The path to the user-data file used when creating a target. It can have
      # the {os_type} and {os_version} placeholders which are replaced with
      # the value of --os-type and --os-version. No instance of a give {os_type}
      # and {os_version} combination can be created unless such a file exists.
      #
      user-data: teuthology/openstack/openstack-{os_type}-{os_version}-user-data.txt
  
      # The IP number of the instance running the teuthology cluster. It will
      # be used to build user facing URLs and should usually be the floating IP
      # associated with the instance running the pulpito server.
      #
      ip: 8.4.8.4

      # OpenStack has predefined machine sizes (called flavors)
      # For a given job requiring N machines, the following example select
      # the smallest flavor that satisfies these requirements. For instance
      # If there are three flavors
      #
      #   F1 (10GB disk, 2000MB RAM, 1CPU)
      #   F2 (100GB disk, 7000MB RAM, 1CPU)
      #   F3 (50GB disk, 7000MB RAM, 1CPU)
      #
      # and machine: { disk: 40, ram: 7000, cpus: 1 }, F3 will be chosen.
      # F1 does not have enough RAM (2000 instead of the 7000 minimum) and
      # although F2 satisfies all the requirements, it is larger than F3
      # (100GB instead of 50GB) and presumably more expensive.
      #
      # This configuration applies to all instances created for teuthology jobs
      # that do not redefine these values.
      #
      machine:
      
        # The minimum root disk size of the flavor, in GB
        #
        disk: 20 # GB

        # The minimum RAM size of the flavor, in MB
        # 
        ram: 8000 # MB

        # The minimum number of vCPUS of the flavor
        #
        cpus: 1

      # The volumes attached to each instance. In the following example,
      # three volumes of 10 GB will be created for each instance and 
      # will show as /dev/vdb, /dev/vdc and /dev/vdd
      #
      # This configuration applies to all instances created for teuthology jobs
      # that do not redefine these values.
      #
      volumes:

        # The number of volumes
        #
        count: 3
        
        # The size of each volume, in GB
        #
        size: 10 # GB
